<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240826

- Visited the Consulate-General of Japan in San Francisco to receive the updated passport.
	- It takes more than one hour to drive to San Francisco, and now I\i'm tired from the long drive.
	- Parking lots in San Francisco are very expensive.
	- I hate the atomosphere of San Francisco.
	- The town is dirty and smells awful. There are many shady people.
	- Watched sea lions.
- Replied back to a mentee about unit/end-to-end testing

## [2003A. Turtle and Good Strings - 800](https://codeforces.com/contest/2003/problem/A)

### My idea

`k = 2` is the simplest scenario, and if it\'s impossible with `k = 2`, it\'s also impossible with `k >= 3`.

When we think about `k = 3`, the first character of `t1` must be different from last characters of `t2` and `t3`, but the condition is more strict than thinking about only `t1` v.s. `t2`. Therefore, I only consider `k = 2` for simplicity\'s sake. (not very confident about the explanation).

When `k = 2`, we just have to check if there is a pair of `(t1, t2)` where `t1[0] != t2[-1] and t1[-1] != t2[0]`.

```
def possible(n: int, s: list[str]) -> bool:
    for i in range(n - 1):
        if s[i] != s[i + 1]:
            return s[0] != s[n - 1]
    return False


for _ in range(int(input())):
    n: int = int(input())
    s: list[str] = list(input())
    if possible(n, s):
        print("YES")
    else:
        print("NO")
```

### The answer from the editorial

[Codeforces Round 968 (Div. 2) Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/132953)

> A necessary condition for `s` to be good is that `s1 != sn`.

> For a string `s` where `s1 != sn`, let `t1` be a string composed of just the simple character `s1`, and let `t2` be a string composed of the `n - 1` characters from `s2` to `sn`.

> In this way, the condition is satisfied.

> Therefore, if `s1` != `sn`, the answer is "Yes"; otherwise, the answer is "No".

I misunderstood the problem. I thought `t2`\'s first character must not be equal to `t1`\'s last character, but the condition is

> For all `1 <= i < j <= k`, the first character of `ti` isn\'t equal to the last character of `tj`. We only have to compare the first character of `ti` with the last characters of strings come after `ti`.

The answer is as simple as

```
for _ in range(int(input())):
    n: int = int(input())
    s: str = input()
    if s[0] != s[-1]:
        print("YES")
    else:
        print("NO")
```

## News: Python Software Foundation suspended Tim Peters for three months

[discuss.python.org: Three month suspensions for a Core Developer](https://discuss.python.org/t/three-month-suspension-for-a-core-developer/60250)

[Lunduke's blog: Python Bans Prominent Dev for Enjoying the Wrong Old SNL Sketch](https://lunduke.locals.com/post/5985667/python-bans-prominent-dev-for-enjoying-the-wrong-old-snl-sketch)

[Chris's Blog](https://chrismcdonough.substack.com/p/the-shameful-defenestration-of-tim)

- [reactions on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/1ep4dbt/the_shameful_defenestration_of_tim/)

> When Tim Peters won the 2017 Python Distinguished Service Award, he had already been working on Python for over 20 years.

I didn\'t know that Tim has such a long history with the Python community.

[The Register: Core Python developer suspended for three months](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/09/core_python_developer_suspended_coc/)

- [reactions on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41234180)

Python\'s sorting algorithm is known as Timsort, which is a combination of Merge sort and Insertion sort. The best-case time complexity of the Insertion Sort is O(n), and leveraging the fact improves the time complexity of Merge Sort, which is O(nlogn) at best. As I remember correctly, the reason why Quick Sort is not used is that Quick Sort does not retain the order of elements.

[Quicksort - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quicksort)

> Most implementations of quicksort are not stable, meaning that the relative order of equal sort items is not preserved.

Even an amateur programmer like myself knows the name Tim Peters, who is the inventor of Timsort. Also, he is known as an author of "Zen of Python," which heavily impacted my life as a programmer.

It\'s surprising to know that he has been suspended from the Python council.

Most of the communications happening seem to be private, but as far as I read the Chris\'s blog and Lunduke\'s one, the suspension of Tim seems to be unreasonable.

I don\'t have enough information to judge the situation, and I also don\'t have the power to influence the community, but I just hope the Python community and its ecosystem will not fall apart.

---

Rice 400
Meat and Potatos 500
Protein bars 400
Protein shake 200
Salad 400
Yogurt 200

Total 2100 kcal

10k walking

---

MUST:

- None

TODO:

- Retry 1995B1
- Review Codeforces 2003B
- Check the editorial of 1884B
- Self-guided tour, 20240914 3:00 pm

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240825](20240825.html)
[20240827](20240827.html)
