<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240830

- Drove my friend to the SF airport.
	- Because the following Monday is a holiday, I can see that many people are going on trips.
- Payed the rent
- Reviewed a pull request that isolates responsibilities of React components
- Left a study group due to a mismatch of skill levels.

Panela Bread is a good place to study/work. The drinks are cheap, the seats are comfortable, and the WiFi is not slow.

My issue got a like! Yay! [xavctn/img2table/issues/211](https://github.com/xavctn/img2table/issues/211)
	- and I noticed that there are open pull requests regarding the issue already. Yikes!

## News: [Codeforces - Congratulations: Tourist has reachd a rating of 4000!](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/133401)

> As you may have already noticed, tourist has reached the symbolic milestone of 4000 rating points.

> Right now, we have assigned a new rank “Tourist” to the 4+ rating. This highlights the uniqueness of the moment!

## Review: [2003B. Turtle and Piggy Are Playing a Game 2](https://codeforces.com/contest/2003/problem/B)

My assumption/approach

```
"""
Turtle -> remove the minimum value to increase the min of the array
Piggy -> remove the maximum value to decrease the max of the array
indices (i, i + 1) do not matter; one operation removes one value from the array
"""
for _ in range(int(input())):
    n: int = int(input())
    a: list[int] = list(map(int, input().split()))
    a.sort()
    print(a[n // 2])
```

but I\'m not very sure that the optimal moves are greedy ones.

[Codeforce Round 968 (Div. 2) Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/132953)

My approach seems to be correct, but I\'m still not confident why it always works.

Maybe I\'m overthinking. Let\'s skip this for now.

---

Gyu-don 1000
Rice 400
Salad 300
Bagels 500
Protein bar 200
Pocky 200
Protein shake 200

Total 2800 kcal (mini-cheat)

---

MUST:

- Codeforces Round 970 (Div. 3) (20240901)

TODO:

- Retry 1995B1
- Ask the house agent about utility bills
- Self-guided tour, 20240914 3:00 pm

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240829](20240829.html)
[20240831](20240831.html)
