<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240803

- Created a pull request to guide my friend on how to mock external API in tests
	- [https://github.com/mie-h/sprout/pull/57](https://github.com/mie-h/sprout/pull/57)
	- Some people say it\'s better to configure a test environment to get responses from external APIs. I agree to some extent, but for the personal project, it\'s overkill, and also we don\'t have that much time.
- Tweaked the summary section of my LinkedIn profile
	- I\'m not a big fan of LinkedIn, but it has helped me get a job. Maybe it\'s better to maintain the profile sometimes.
- Added some projects on my LinkedIn profile
- Solved some problems and reviewed them.

## Microservice Independency: Should I have a dedicated cache/message queue for a microservice?

I googled some but did not find a direct guide on the topic, so I considered it for some time and wrote this note for reference.

I was motivated to consider this because I was desining a microservice with a dedicated cache and message queue, but my colleague asked me not to do that. Unfortunately, neither of us had much knowledge to explain the approahces to others. 

My initial thought was that a dedicated cache could make the microservice truly independent, and this fit our use case. My mind did not change after checking web pages and some consideration.

For simplicity, I will assume we\'re talking about Redis (I hear that Redis stopped being OSS, and we might want to migrate to other projects such as dragonfly tho).

### Pros of having dedicated Redis instances

- Isolation
	- Issues in other services do not affect the microservice. Even if some services go down, the microservice continues to serve for running services.
- Better performance
	- Workloads of other services do not affect the performance of the microservice, making the performance consistent and preventing contention.
	- Resources can be tuned, e.g., scale up/down, for the microservice.
- Better security
	- Because the Redis instance don\'t have to be open to multiple services, it\'s easier to control access and manage security policies.

### Cons of having dedicated Redis instances

- Cost
	- Adding a new instance costs extra.
- More complicated management
	- Adding a new instance increases the burden of configuring.

### Conclusion for the microservice I designed

The microservice is used by multiple services, and its workload is expected to increase hugely. Therefore, I believe having a dedicated Redis instance is better in our case, from the technical standpoint.

However, DevOps engineers and I have been busy and occupied with other tasks. It also makes sense not to add another overhead, considering our current team structure.

I\'ll use the shared infastructure for now.

## [1990A. Submission Bait](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1990/A)

Alice\'s winning strategy is to pick the most significant number with odd counts first. This move makes the count of remaining numbers no more than the first picked number even. After making the situation, any picks Bob makes are followed by Alice\'s pick of the same number, leading to Bob\'s defeat.

Simply put, Alice wins if there is a number with odd counts.

Examples

```
[2, 2, 3, 3] -> (alice, bob) => [(2, 2), (3, 3)] or [(3, 3)] => Alice loses
[1, 2, 2, 3, 3] -> (alice, bob) => [(1, 2), (2, 3), (3, _)] or [(1, 3), (3, _)] => Alice wins
```

```a.py
from collections import defaultdict


for _ in range(int(input())):
    n: int = int(input())
    a: list[int] = list(map(int, input().split()))

    d = defaultdict(int)
    for x in a:
        d[x] += 1

    for cnt in d.values():
        if cnt % 2 == 1:
            print("YES")
            break
    else:
        print("NO")
```

## Retry: [1995B1. Bouquet (Easy Version)](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1995/B1)

```
from collections import defaultdict


for _ in range(int(input())):
    n, m = map(int, input().split())
    a: list[int] = list(map(int, input().split()))

    counter = defaultdict(int)
    for x in a:
        counter[x] += 1

    ans: int = 0
    for sml, cnt in counter.items():
        if sml + 1 not in counter:
            cntmax: int = m // sml
            ans = max(ans, sml * min(cnt, cntmax))  # I overlooked min() here
            continue

        # O(n) in total including the outer for-loop
        # for each size of petals
        #   for i in range(occurrence of the size of petals)
        for _cnt in range(1, cnt + 1):
            if sml * _cnt > m:
                break
            remcoins: int = m - sml * _cnt
            lrgcntmax = min(counter[sml + 1], remcoins // (sml + 1))
            ans = max(ans, sml * _cnt + (sml + 1) * lrgcntmax)

    print(ans)
second|

```

## Review: [1956B. Nene and the Card Game](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1956/B)

```
from collections import defaultdict


for _ in range(int(input())):
    n: int = int(input())
    a: list[int] = list(map(int, input().split()))

    d: defaultdict = defaultdict(int)
    for x in a:
        d[x] += 1
    ans: int = sum([1 if v == 2 else 0 for v in d.values()])
    print(ans)
```

---

Ketone 10 mg/dl

Salad 30g
Macadamia nuts 30g
Protein shake 10g

Total carbohydrate 70 g

---

MUST:

- Participate in Codeforces Round 963 (Div. 2)
- Check the production issue

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Clean my keyboard

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240802](20240802.html)
[20240804](20240804.html)
