<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240822

- I ran a lot today. My legs hurt.
- Browsed [stacking.dev](https://www.stacking.dev/)
	- It\'s a new concept for me, stacking pull requests. As I read the page, I\'m not very motivated to try that. Shouldn\'t we create a healthy culture in engineering teams first?
	- Also, I have never heard of my friends use the technique.
	- I might want to browse [graphite.dev](https://graphite.dev/features/cli) tomorrow

## GitHub Actions: Is it possible to apply linters only to changes?

### Motivation

I\'m refactoring a (sort of) old and large code base, and I want to force contributors to apply `black` for their changes.

(On second thought, maybe I can just apply `black` to all the files first and use `black` as a linter in GitHub Actions? :thinking\_face:)

### `paths` filter

I can use `paths` filter to trigger only when, for example, Python files change

```
on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - '**/*.py'
```

This way, we can avoid triggering linters such as Ruff or Flake8 when the changes are not about Python code.

### Access changes in GitHub Actions

As I browsed several web pages / blogs, it seems there is no easy way to access changes.

We migt be able to

- leverage `git diff`
	- Because GitHub Actions checkout a specific commit, we can do something like `git diff HEAD~` to get differences.
- use GitHub Action [tj-actions/changed-files](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/changed-files)
	- This action seems to provide names/paths of changed files, but it does not provide access to changes directly.

### My conclusion

It seems to be difficult to implement it in GitHub Actions. I think configuring pre-hook on `git commit` is a popular practice, but I doubt the collaborators are happy configuring that.

We already have a workflow to run `ruff`, and it makes sense to not impose strict formatting rules. As long as changes follow PEP8, it should be fine.

Wait, it also makes sense to use `black` when having members who are not familiar with PEP8 because `black` can automate or get rid of effort formatting Python code. Hmm...

I will just stick to `ruff` for now.

---

Protein shake 200
Salad 500
Rice 400
Mexican rice 500
Yogurt 200
Protein bar 200

Total 2000 kcal

1-hour walking, 10k run (!)

---

MUST:

- Codeforces Round 968 (Div. 2), 20240825 (Sunday)
- Passport Renewal, 20240826 (Monday)

TODO:

- Retry 1884B with a binary search approach
- Self-guided tour, 20240914 3:00 pm

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240821](20240821.html)
[20240823](20240823.html)
