<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240529

I will have have McDonald\'s tomorrow.

Tackled Codeforces 1973A, but it seems their servers are down now. I can see that all other submissions by other users are "In queue." I'll check the verdict and write up tomorrow.

## IETF (The Internet Engineering Task Force)

IETF (The Internet Engineering Task Force) is responsible for the development and management of internet standards.

I was not aware that they have an RFC document on their own mission.

[RFC 3935: A Mission Statement for the IETF](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3935)

> The goal of the IETF is to make the Internet work better.

> The mission of the IETF is to produce high quality, relevant technical and engineering documents that influence the way people design, use, and manage the Internet in such a way as to make the Internet work better.  These documents include protocol standards, best current practices, and informational documents of various kinds.

> Open process

> any interested person can participate in the work, know what is being decided, and make his or her voice heard on the issue. Part of this principle is our commitment to making our documents, our WG mailing lists, our attendance lists, and our meeting minutes publicly available on the Internet.

> Technical competence

> the issues on which the IETF produces its documents are issues where the IETF has the competence needed to speak to them, and that the IETF is willing to listen to technically competent input from any source.  Technical competence also means that we expect IETF output to be designed to sound network engineering principles - this is also often referred to as "engineering quality".

> Volunteer Core

> our participants and our leadership are people who come to the IETF because they want to do work that furthers the IETF's mission of "making the Internet work better".

> Rough consensus and running code

> We make standards based on the combined engineering judgement of our participants and our real-world experience in implementing and deploying our specifications.

> Protocol ownership

> when the IETF takes ownership of a protocol or function, it accepts the responsibility for all aspects of the protocol, even though some aspects may rarely or never be seen on the Internet.  Conversely, when the IETF is not responsible for a protocol or function, it does not attempt to exert control over it, even though it may at times touch or affect the Internet.

[IETF: Introduction](https://www.ietf.org/about/introduction/)

> The IETF publishes its technical documentation as RFCs, an acronym for their historical title Requests for Comments. RFCs are sequentially numbered, starting with RFC 1 published in 1969 (the RFC series predates the IETF). Each RFC has a status, generally one of 'Internet Standard', 'Proposed Standard', 'Best Current Practice' (or 'BCP' in short), 'Informational', 'Experimental' or 'Historic'. Some statuses may change over time. RFCs are freely available.

> The RFC series has two sub-series, STDs and BCPs, with each numbered STD and BCP comprising one or more RFCs. STDs are 'Internet Standard' RFCs and BCPs are RFCs that describe Best Current Practices in the Internet, some of which are administrative processes for the IETF.

> Once an RFC is published, it is never revised. If the specification it describes changes, the standard will be re-published in another RFC that "obsoletes" the first. If a technical or editorial error is found in an RFC, an errata may be linked to the RFC and/or held for the next document update.

> The authoritative repository of RFCs is the [RFC Editor](https://www.rfc-editor.org/) website.

---

Poke 800
Yogurt 300
California rolls 200
Hamburger 300
Tofu rolls 200
Bubble tea 400

Total 2200 kcal

---

TODO:

- Fix env for dashboard.huyfififi.com
- Consider other approaches for 1973A

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240528](20240528.html)
[20240530](20240530.html)
