<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240521

ド級のリトライ

**ドリトライだ！**

## Tags of Docker Container Images

I missed to bookmark it, but I read an article about reducing Docker image size.

I browsed some web pages, but couldn\'t find definitive resources on that. Here are my understanding summarizing the information on the internet.

### Difference between "Shared" and "Simple" tags

> Short version: "simple tags" will usually be a single platform (Windows vs Linux) and "shared tags" will be a combination of multiple platforms[[1](https://github.com/docker-library/faq#whats-the-difference-between-shared-and-simple-tags)].

When using simple tags such as alpine, the specific Linux distribution or Windows OS is used.

When using shared tags such as tags without suffix, Docker checks the architecture and OS of our local machine and determines which one of listed OS to use.

For example, [Python\'s Docker shared tag `3.12`](https://hub.docker.com/_/python) consists of these

- 3.12.3-bookworm
- 3.12.3-windowsservercore-ltsc2022
- 3.12.3-windowsservercore-1809

In my case, Debian-based 3.12.3-bookworm ([DebianBookworm](https://wiki.debian.org/DebianBookworm)) will be used because I use MacBook.

### shared/bookworm/alpine/slim

#### shared/bookworm

`bookworm` refers to Debian Linux\'s Bookworm variant, which contains up-to-date packages and softwares installed.

Shared tags often (at least for my MacOS workstation) refers to `bookworm`.

#### apline

`alpine` refers to Alpine Linux, which is a super lightweight Linux distribution. It is the smallest Docker image option, but lacks tools or libraries.

#### slim

`slim` is a down-sized version of `bookworm`, (generated with [[SlimToolkit](https://github.com/slimtoolkit/slim)] ?) to optimize contianer image size.

### Choose which one to use

Keeping Docker container images as small as possible is a good way to reduce the required space in servers. Also, it can make CI (Continuous Integration, such as testing or auto-deployment) complete in shorter time.

`bookworm` is the simplest option but contains many redundant libraries.

`alpine` is the smallest option, but I see people don\'t recommend to use it because configuring it is very hard; required packages/libraries need to be installed manually. It seems people keep running into issues managing `alpine` container image properly.

`slim` is generally recommended because it has smaller container image size than `bookworm`, but also includes basic libraries, making it wasy to configure and manage.

For our Django (Python) project, replacing a shared tag with slim one reduced the container image size by about 40%.

---

Sushi bowl 900
Yogurt 300
Bubble tea 600

Total 1800 kcal

---

TODO:

- Check the differences between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240520](20240520.html)
[20240522](20240522.html)
