<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240522

I always start a day thinking, "I feel a bit tired. Maybe I better slack off a little bit," but I end up hardworking and exhausted.

It\'s a known fact that once you manage to start doing something, you can continue it for a while; only the initial hurdle is high.

It\'s called "作業興奮" in Japan though it\'s not backed by scientific research.

- Reduced size of docker container images in our infrastructure by [using `slim` and `alpine` tags](20240521.html)
- Added minimal test templates and configured GitHub Actions with it (CI)
	- My personal project was a very good reference to write the YAML file for it.

---

## HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2, and HTTP/3

I cannot finish today\'s page if I check every detail, so I just noted what I found interesting.

### References I browsed

- [1]: [Cloudflare: HTTP/2 vs HTTP/1.1](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/performance/http2-vs-http1.1/)

- [2]: [MDN: Evolution of HTTP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Evolution_of_HTTP)

- [3]: [W3C: The Original HTTP as defined in 1991](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/HTTP/AsImplemented.html)

- [4]: [RFC 1945 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1945)

- [5]: [RFC 2068 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2068)

- [6]: [RFC 9114 HTTP/3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9114)

- [7]: [HTTP/3 protocol | Can I use ...](https://caniuse.com/http3)

### HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol)

HTTP is a method computers and servers use to request and send data such as text and images.

(When someone visit a web page, their browser sends an HTTP request to the server, where the web page is hosted, to fetch the content of the web page. Then, the web server sends an HTTP response back to the web browser, with the text, images, or other data.)

### HTTP/0.9

The original HTTP was implemented as a prototype by World Wide Web initiative (Tim Berners-Lee and his team) in 1991. This version is known as HTTP/0.9, but the number was assigned after its implementation.

As we can see in the web page[3], its definition looks fairly simple.

> HTTP/0.9 was extremely simple: requests consisted of a single line and started with the only possible method GET followed by the path to the resource[2].

```
GET /mypage.html
```

> The response was extremely simple, too: it only consisted of the file itself[2].

```
<html>
  A very simple HTML page
</html>
```

### HTTP/1.0, HTTP/1.1

HTTP/1.0 and HTTP/1.1 are developed in parallel; HTTP/1.0 is a result of experimental development, HTTP/1.1 is the first standardized version of HTTP published in 1997.

> Between 1991-1995, these (new features) were introduced with a try-and-see approach.
> In the meantime, proper standardization was in progress. This happened in parallel to the diverse implementations of HTTP/1.0. The first standardized version of HTTP, HTTP/1.1, was published in early 1997, only a few months after HTTP/1.0[2].

They introduced numerous improvements such as status code or the concept of HTTP headers.

After published as RFC 2068 (the first version of HTTP/1.1)[5] in January 1997, HTTP/1.1 continued to be used for more than 15 years until the release of HTTP/2, which was published in June 2014[2].

### HTTP/2

> In 2015, a new version of HTTP called HTTP/2 was created. HTTP/2 solves several problems that the creators of HTTP/1.1 did not anticipate. In particular, HTTP/2 is much faster and more efficient than HTTP/1.1. One of the ways in which HTTP/2 is faster is in how it prioritizes content during the loading process[1].

cf: Multiplexing, Server push, Header Compression

### HTTP/3

> The next major version of HTTP, HTTP/3 has the same semantics as earlier versions of HTTP but uses QUIC instead of TCP for the transport layer portion... QUIC is designed to provide much lower latency for HTTP connections... By October 2022, 26% of all websites were using HTTP/3[2].

As you can check [7], HTTP/3 is supported by most major browsers.

---

There might be misunderstanding, but I will go to bed as my bran cells are dying.

---

Sushi bowl 900
Yogurt 300
Bubble tea 400
Kombucha 100
Spring rools 300
Che 300

Total 2300 kcal (infinite overweight)

---

TODO:

- Add celery to the personal project.
- Check how to specify HTTP version in servers(?Nginx, Apache?)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240521](20240521.html)
[20240523](20240523.html)
