<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240520

I was creating a document about a feature that consists of multiple components, such as a message broker, backend, and frontend.

I provided a brief summary of the system architecture and asked Chat-GPT4o to generate an image of its high-level overview. As a result, a completely meaningless image was generated :joy: I tried different prompts multiple times, but couldn\'t get it to generate an image with meaningful information. All images have random characters on them. I need to create one manually with app.diagram.net.

## Mob Programming / Pair Programming

- Pair Programming
	- Two programmers work together at one workstation. One programmer writes code while ther other reviews the code as it is written. The two programmers switch roles frequently.
- Mob Programming (Ensemble Programming)
	- The entire team works together on the same task on the same computer. The team collaborates continuously, discussing and implementing code collectively.

I\'m with a company with a remote work culture, and we\'re trying to facilitate collaborations/communications by leveraging them.

Although I don\'t have enough knowledge of that, I\'m thinking about starting with introducing more pair programming sessions. In a remote work culture, keeping everyone engaged and sessions concise should be very hard.

---

Sushi bowl 900
Salad 300
Bubble tea 600

Total 1800 kcal

---

TODO:

- Check the differences between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240519](20240519.html)
[20240521](20240521.html)
