<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /></head>

# 20240502

- participated in Codeforces Round 943 (Div. 3)
	- solved 3 problems (personal best)
	- Contests in codeforces happen too early in the morning (7:30/45 am), not suitable for people in the Bay Area
- enabled GitHub pages
	- TODO: consider using my domain for the GitHub pages
- checked [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/configuring-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site/about-custom-domains-and-github-pages) on configuring custom domains for GitHub pages
- configured a custom domain [nippo.huyfififi.com](https://nippo.huyfififi.com)

## Apache with HTTPS

Same as Nginx, I can get SSL certificate from Let\'s Encrypt by doing something like

```
$ sudo certbot certonly --apache -d yourdomain.com  # I have not tested
```

This command will perform some tests that check my control over the domain and give me SSL certificate.

## Decision on how to host this website

Using VPS + Nginx or Apache seemts to be a good and feasible choice to host this website. However, since this website is a diary-like content, I might be going to make changes such as adding a new entry everyday. If I go with the VPS approach, everyday I need to ssh to the server and pull the latest commits from remote (I don\'t want to ssh to write something). With GitHub pages, I can just push commits and the website reflects the changes automatically. I think it\'s the easiest way.

Oh, and the reason I don\'t think about using physical servers is that I\'m sharing a house rn and cannot set up a static IP address. Also, I need to buy and configure a mini PC or Raspberry Pi, but it takes time and money to complete that.

Ngrok is easy to use but costs me around $30/month. I used to use it and the experience with it is great, but it\'s a bit expensive for me, compared to other options. Additionally, I need a physical PC same as the static IP approach.

Let\'s proceed with GitHub pages.

## Custom domain (subdomain) configuration for GitHub pages

It was very easy to configure a custom subdomain for GitHub pages

1. GitHub Settings -> Pages -> Custom domain: Add the custom domain you want to use to host the website
1. Your DNS service: Add CNAME your subdomain -> {your-user-id}.github.io
1. GitHub Settings -> Pages -> Custom domain: check if the DNS setting is valid -> if valid, you're all set

This website is hosted on [nippo.huyfififi.com](https://nippo.huyfififi.com) now

---

Chips 500
Poke 700
Avocado rolls 300
Yogurt 300
Bubble tea 600

Total 2400 kcal :sob:

---

TODO:

- Review the Codeforces problems I solved today, maybe on the weekend
- Check the difference between SSL and TLS

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240501](./20240501.html)
