<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240514

I was busy taking care of releases today.

Everyone is talking about GPT-4o. I usually use Google\'s Gemini and GitHub Co-pilot, but it might be better to check GPT-4o out. I hear that GPT-4o is not good at coding tho.

Wait, perhaps I don\'t have to be an early-adapter. Apple and OpenAI are collaborating to develop AI assistant feature (?) (I suspect it is similar to Siri), so I can wait for its release and start enjoying talking with AI after its release. Let\'s stick to what I\'m using for the time being. I\'m an old-fashioned guy who is only interested in fundamentals instead of applications. I use zsh and vim.

## Let\'s Encrypt and other SSL/TLS certificates providers

Let\'s Encrypt provides free TLS certificates, and I was wondering what the point is of buying certificates from other providers.

As I browsed a few web pages, I found information on that.o

### Validity Duration

Let\'s Encrypt issues certificates valid for 90 days, whereas paid certificates can last 1-3 years. Using paid certificates can reduce renewal effot.

However, [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) can automate the renewal of TLS certificates from Let\'s Encrypt. I don'\'t think the longer validity of paid certicicates is the advantage.

On second thought, certbot\'s renewal can fail due to misconfiguration (it happens in my VPS). Reducing the chances of failure is beneficial.

### DV vs OV & EV

DV (Domain Validation): Lowest level. Certificate Authority (CA) only verifies you control the domain, not your identity.

OV (Organization Validation): Mid-level. CA confirms your domain ownership and validates your organization\'s legitimacy through additional checks.

EV (Extended Validation): Highest level. EV involves the most rigorous checks, verifying your organization\'s legal existence and good standing.

Let\'s Encrypt checks if the domain is in control of the person who requests a TLS certificate for it (DV), but it\'s a bare-minimum standard.

[https://www.digicert.com/difference-between-dv-ov-and-ev-ssl-certificates](https://www.digicert.com/difference-between-dv-ov-and-ev-ssl-certificates)

> What distinguishes OV & EV certificates are the extra layers and steps of validation required to obtain them. For both EV & OV certificates CAs must verify the domain owner as well as several details related to the affiliated business including name, type, status, and physical address.

When running business that deal with sensitive data, DV is not enough to prove the identity to users.

This is my certificate of ocalaavenue.net

```
Issued to:
Common Name (CN)	ocalaavenue.net
Organization (O)	<Not Part Of Certificate>
Organizational Unit (OU)	<Not Part Of Certificate>

Issued by:
Common Name (CN)	R3
Organization (O)	Let's Encrypt
Organizational Unit (OU)	<Not Part Of Certificate>
```

and this is facebook\'s

```
Issued to:
Common Name (CN)	*.facebook.com
Organization (O)	Meta Platforms, Inc.
Organizational Unit (OU)	<Not Part Of Certificate>

Issued by:
Common Name (CN)	DigiCert SHA2 High Assurance Server CA
Organization (O)	DigiCert Inc
Organizational Unit (OU)	www.digicert.com
```

You can see the organization name is provided in the facebook\'s, but not in mine from Let\'s Encrypt. Facebook\'s is with at least OV in addition to DV.

Now I\'m getting why companies don\'t use Let\'s Encrypt. (I see some companies I\'ve been involved use Let\'s Encrypt tho :sweat:)

### Other benefits of paid certificates

Here are some examples

#### Customer Support

Paid certificate vendors often offer customer support to help with installation, troubleshooting, and other certificate-related issues whereas Let\'s Encrypt is a self-service platform.

#### Warranty

For example, DigiCert\'s Secure Site certificate provides warranty[[1](https://docs.digicert.com/en/certcentral/manage-certificates/secure-site-certificate-benefits.html)].

> Industry-leading warranties.
> Secure Site certificates include warranties to protect you and your customers: a $1.75M Netsure Protection Warranty for your business and an industry-best $2M aggregate Relying Party Warranty for your customers.

I see many other advantages of paid TLS certificates.

---

Yogurt 300
Lunchable 500
Sushi bowl 800
Chicken 200

Total 1800 kcal

---

TODO:

- Solve 1971E - Find the Car

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240513](20240513.html)
[20240515](20240515.html)
