<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240524

Browsed [https://github.com/actions/checkout/releases](https://github.com/actions/checkout/releases) to check which version I should use in my GitHub Actions configuration YAML. Updated v3 -> v4 because there is no reason not to. The latest does not introduce breaking changes, and it provides bug fixes and additional features.

I suddenly began wondering what would happen if online documentation was unavailable for organizational issues or other reasons. I used to see people publish books about programming language manuals, but now, for example, if servers are down, I cannot check the documentation.

In that case, I may be able to check the way back machine. I also bet someone will host a website to serve the documents voluntarily. Maybe I was worried too much.

---

Browsed [What is Amazon EKS? - Amazon EKS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/what-is-eks.html)

It\'s embarassing that I have little knowledge on Kubernetes. I\'m not a DevOps engineer with my full-time position, and also other projects I touched are better off sticking to simple architecture. (All my friends at BigTech also don\'t understand how it works, so it\'s not that embarrasing I don\'t know how to scale it, I hope?)

I hear that AWS and Azure have very different policy for server outage; Azure provides more flexible compensation, but I don\'t know much about it.

[Stack Overflow: What's the difference between Docker Compose and Kubernetes?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47536536/whats-the-difference-between-docker-compose-and-kubernetes)

Docker Compose deploys multi-container Docker apps to a single server, while Kubernetes is a production-grade container orchestrator that can run multiple container runtimes, including Docker\'s, across multiple virtual or physical machines.

So they are very different.

I cannot use my compose.yaml 

[Kompose](kompose.io) (The website looks neat)

> An official Kubernetes project, located at github.com/kubernetes/kompose

> GO FROM DOCKER COMPOSE TO KUBERNETES

> Kompose is a conversion tool for Docker Compose to container orchestrators such as Kubernetes (or OpenShift).

I might want to use Kompose if I need to use configure Kubernetes with a Compose file.


---

## Preferred compose file name

[How Compose works | Docker Docs](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-application-model/#the-compose-file)

> The default path for a Compose file is compose.yaml (preferred) or compose.yml that is placed in the working directory. Compose also supports docker-compose.yaml and docker-compose.yml for backwards compatibility of earlier versions. If both files exist, Compose prefers the canonical compose.yaml.

Projects I\'ve been involved use `docker-compose.yml`, so I was surprised to know `compose.yaml` is the preferred name here. I will use `compose.yaml` whenever possible from now on.

[Version and name top-level elements](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/04-version-and-name/)

Also, I see that the top-level `version` property in a Compose file is now obsolete while I can see that in several projects.

> The top-level version property is defined by the Compose Specification for backward compatibility. It is only informative and you'll receive a warning message that it is obsolete if used.
> Compose doesn't use version to select an exact schema to validate the Compose file, but prefers the most recent schema when it's implemented.

---

Sushi bowl 800
Avocado 200
Yogurt 300

Total 1300 kcal

---

TODO:

- What is NAS
- Make progress with my personal project

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240523](20240523.html)
[20240525](20240525.html)
