<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /></head>

# 20240504

## Node.js

> Node.js is a free, open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment that lets developers create servers, web apps, command line tools and scripts.[nodejs.org/en](https://nodejs.org/en)

I was talking with my friends, and had a doubt on the responsibility of Node.js in the modern frontend development.

From my experience, projects with Vue.js or other frameworks usually use Node.js, but the main feature of Node.js is creating API or other server-side functionalities. When having backend servers, the backend will provide API and take care of business logic, so the necessity of Node.js looks doubtful to me.

Because I\'m only familiar with Vue.js, I browsed some webpages on the relationship between Vue.js <-> Node.js

## Node.js in Vue.js

It seems to be totally feasible to use Vue.js without Node.js; it can be served from CDN[[1](https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start#using-vue-from-cdn)].

But, when thinking about running the application in my local machine, Node.js is required[[2](https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start#creating-a-vue-application)].

> Prerequisites
> - Install Node.js version 18.3 or higher

After mulling over, my tentative conclusion why we use Node.js is to run the frontend application in local machines, which is necessary for development. 

Also, the dependency management feature of npm is needed for modern web application development because modern web applications often rely on multiple external libraries, and npm relies on Node.js to function.

---

I have a friend who is not interested in technical details, but only interested in creating something. Every time I talk with him, I feel that he and I are on the same scale but in opposite positions. I wanted to pursue Ph.D if I have enough money, mental stability, and and insame to same extent.

I enjoyed creating something such as video games or silly mobile applications, but with the full-time position, it\'s hard to output in addition to input. My interest has changed, and now I try to understand things as deeply as possible.

---

My parents bring a ton of food though I ask them not to. They constantly break my diet plan.

Total ??? kcal

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240503](20240503.html)
[20240505](20240505.html)
