<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250223

- bought envelopes
- journaling (zero second thinking)
- English words
	- As I became an American, I felt the urge to be good at English.
- chest press, 20 minutes run, 20 minutes walk
- Desining Data-Intensive Applications

## Python map() and functools.reduce()

[Built-in Functions - map — Python 3.13.2 documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#map)

map(function, iterable) -> returns an iterator that applies *function* to each item of *iterable*.

```
In [1]: map(int, ["1", "2", "3"])
Out[1]: <map at 0x10351f040>

In [2]: list(map(int, ["1", "2", "3"]))
Out[2]: [1, 2, 3]

In [3]: list(map(lambda x: x * 2, [1, 2, 3]))
Out[3]: [2, 4, 6]
```

I always use this function to convert stdin strings -> numbers in competitive programming.

[functools - reduce - ... - Python 3.13.2 documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functools.html#functools.reduce)

functools.reduce(function, iterable) -> function(function(function(element 1, element 2), element 3), element 4) ... (repeat)

```
In [1]: import functools

In [2]: functools.reduce(lambda x, y: x + y, [1, 2, 3, 4])
Out[2]: 10

In [3]: functools.reduce(lambda x, y: x + y, ["1", "2", "3", "4"])
Out[3]: '1234'
```

I rarely use this function, but I think I should be aware of this.

### MapReduce Framework

[What is MapReduce | IBM](https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/mapreduce)

MapReduce is a common framework for batch processing, especially for large-scale distributed systems. Although there are some conceptual similarities, it seems to be better to consider them completely different.

> Mapping: On each node, the map function processes the data it receivesm converting the data into key/value pairs.

> Reducing: Reduce functions process the key/value pairs that the mappers emit.

The reduce step aggregates results across distributed nodes, whereas Python reduce() combines values sequentially.

---

TODO:

- Summarize Desining Data-Intensive Applications Chapter 9
- Create a Go script to send a request to OpenAI API
- Pay state taxes
- File the tax return
- 2044E, F
- live plants for my desk, probably Pothos

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250222](20250222.html)
[20250224](20250224.html)
