<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250211

I could not sleep very well last night, but I don't feel exhausted. Adrenaline?

---

- Designing Data-Intensive Applications
	- When developing real-time systems in airplanes, cars, and other safety-critical embedded systems, we must use programming languages that offer real-time guarantees.
		- One of the options is Rust.
		- Garbage collection (GC) is a critical challenge in achieving real-time guarantees because garbage collectors typically pauses processes in unpredictable ways.
			- Stop-the-World pauses
			- Non-Deterministic execution time
			- Uncontrollable scheduling
			- (I haven't done many researches yet) CPython seems to mitigate the "stop-the-world" GC pauses by reference counting, but still it pauses when scanning cyclic references.
		- It's obvious in hindsight, but the needs for real-time guarantees in embedded systems are new to me (web developers)
	- Time-of-Day clocks are used to provide the current date and time, referring to a clock in a computer, while monotonic clocks are used to measure intervals by leveraging its characteristic: it only moves forward (time return by Time-of-Day clocks can go backward).
	- TCP vs UDP (reliability vs variability of delays)
	- Because internet traffic can burst, allocating the right amount of bandwidth is challenging and is not efficient in terms of resource usage. The differences between requirements of the internet and ones of phone calls resulted in the different approaches to direct communications.
	- When a node does not respond, others cannot tell what exactly the problem with the node is.
	- Byzantine Faults: nodes might lie. In most cases, we can assume that nodes don't lie, but there are some scenarios addressing Byazntine Generals Problem. One example is systems used in the space; a computer's memory or CPU may be corrupted by radiation.

---

TODO:

- Summarize/review the chapter 8 of Desining Data-Intensive Applications
- 2044E, F
- Oath Ceremony (20250220)
- Create a TurboTax account (20250222)
- haircut
- Check monthly bills (20250301)
- Tax Return (20250415)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250210](20250210.html)
[20250212](20250212.html)
