<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250218

- chest press, lat pull down, arm curl, kettle lift, 20 minutes run, 30 minutes walk
- journaling (zero second thinking)
- browsed some resources about short sleepers
	- I suffer from insomnia, and it might make sense not to regard sleep as too important
		- I doubt the replicability of of being a short sleeper tho
- read "わたしが「わたし」を助けに行こう -自分を救う心理学-"
- printed tax forms
- Designing Data-Intensive Applications

## Kubernetes Probes: Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes

[Kubernetes Probes - KubeOps](https://kubeops.net/blog/kubernetes-probes)

> In Kubernetes, a probe is a mechanism used to determine the health and readiness of a container or application running within a pod.

[Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes | Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/liveness-readiness-startup-probes/)

There are three types of probes: liveness, readiness, and startup probes.

A liveness probe determines if a container is still running and functioning correctly. If the liveness probe fails, Kubernetes (`kubelet`) assumes the container is unhealthy and restarts it.

A readiness probe determines if a container is ready to accept requests. If the readiness probe fails, Kubernetes removes the pod from the service's endpoints list. The container stays running, but no new traffic is routed to it until it passes the readiness probe again. (TODO: Check the difference between pods and containers in Kubernetes. Check the responsibilities of `kubelet`)

A startup probe determines if a container has started. This probe is used not to trigger a liveness probe and a readiness probe until a container starts.

---

TODO:

- Pay state taxes
- Buy an envelope
- File the tax return
- 2044E, F
- Oath Ceremony (20250220)
- haircut
- live plants for my desk, probably Pothos

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250217](20250217.html)
[20250219](20250219.html)
