<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250210

Mondays start with merging pull requests by Dependabot.

I'm done with the naturalization interview, so I think I should start practicing English conversations now.

I've been listening to "golden hour" by JVKE. I want to die in that atmosphere.

I'm too productive today. I wonder what will happen to my body tomorrow.

---

- household chores
- 30 minutes walk
- rebuilt docker images for my Mastodon server to upgrade their versions
- renewed the TLS certificate for my Mastodon server
- journaling (zero second thinking)
- worked hard
- browsed web pages about Progressive Web App
- asked my sister about tax return
	- She is an accountant
- read a few pages of "Designing Data-Intensive Applications"
	- [Shark attacks threaten Google's undersea internet cables - slate.com](https://slate.com/technology/2014/08/shark-attacks-threaten-google-s-undersea-internet-cables-video.html)
	- The video of a shark attacking an internet cable is hilarious, though it is a serious issue.
	- When we think about distributed systems, we must bear the fact that the internet is not very reliable.

---

## Progressive Web App / Web Application Manifest

### Progressive Web App

- [Getting started with Progressive Web Apps | Blog | Chrome for developers](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/getting-started-pwa#what_is_a_progressive_web_app)
- [What is a progressive web app? - Progressive web apps | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Guides/What_is_a_progressive_web_app)
- [Examples of progressive web apps (PWAs) done right - Adobe Experience Cloud](https://business.adobe.com/blog/basics/progressive-web-app-examples)

Progressive Web App (PWA) is specific type of web applications that are built with standard web technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, but it can be installed on a device and behaves like a native mobile application.

- [What, Exactly, Makes Something A Progressive Web App? - Infrequently Noted](https://infrequently.org/2016/09/what-exactly-makes-something-a-progressive-web-app/)

According to the article, the requirements of a Progressive Web App are:

> - **Originate from a Secure Origin**. Served over TLS and green padlock displays (no active mixed content).
> - **Load while offline** (even if only a custom offline page). By implication, this means that Progressive Web Apps require Serice Workers.
> - **Reference a Web App Manifest** with *at least* the following properties: `name`, `short_name`, `star_url`, `display` with a value of `standalone` or `fullscreen`...

With the requirements met, browsers that support PWA can install the application to devices.

- [Making PWAs Installable - Progressive web apps | MDN](https://infrequently.org/2016/09/what-exactly-makes-something-a-progressive-web-app/)
- [Progressive web app - Wikipedia](https://infrequently.org/2016/09/what-exactly-makes-something-a-progressive-web-app/)

According to these resources (please don't blame me for referring a Wikipedia page), Chromium-based browsers support PWA, but other browsers do not support in many cases.

One of the PWA's benefits is its closs-platform nature that reduces developers' burdens. Another key feature is PWA can process real-time notifications thanks to service workers (TODO: Check how it works, [Service Worker API - Web APIs | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API)).

### Web Application Manifest

A progressive web app must have `manifest.json` to let browsers install it, though its use case is not limited to PWA.

`manifest.json` is used to guide browsers on how PWA should be displayed or behave.

Since Mastodon can be run as a Progressive Web App, we can take a look at mine [ocalaavenue.net/manifest.json](https://ocalaavenue.net/manifest.json)

```json
{
  "id": "/home",
  "name": "Ocala Ave",
  "short_name": "Ocala Ave",
  "icons": [
    ...(omitted)...
    {
      "src": "https://ocalaavenue.net/packs/media/icons/android-chrome-192x192-eddc1ed540e97b926202b7b857989d60.png",
      "sizes": "192x192",
      "type": "image/png",
      "purpose": "any maskable"
    },
    ...(omitted)...
    {
      "src": "https://ocalaavenue.net/packs/media/icons/android-chrome-512x512-ccb53c9fcbb5f61bf741cc54998318f0.png",
      "sizes": "512x512",
      "type": "image/png",
      "purpose": "any maskable"
    }
  ],
  "theme_color": "#191b22",
  "background_color": "#191b22",
  "display": "standalone",
  "start_url": "/",
  "scope": "/",
  "share_target": {
    "url_template": "share?title={title}&text={text}&url={url}",
    "action": "share",
    "method": "GET",
    "enctype": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
    "params": {
      "title": "title",
      "text": "text",
      "url": "url"
    }
  },
  "shortcuts": [
    {
      "name": "Compose new post",
      "url": "/publish"
    },
    {
      "name": "Notifications",
      "url": "/notifications"
    },
    {
      "name": "Explore",
      "url": "/explore"
    }
  ]
}
```

Top level keys are called *members*, and according to MDN, these are the required fields for PWAs.

> - `name` or `shortname`
> - `icons` must contain a 192px and a 512 px icon
> - `start_url`
> - `display` and/or `display_override`
> - `prefer_related_applications` must be `false` or not present

You can see that the Mastodon's `manifest.json` meets the requirements.

#### How to install with Google Chrome

1. Open [ocalaavenue.net](https://ocalaavenue.net) or any website you want to install
1. Select "More" at the top right -> Cast, save, and share -> Install ... as app

Wow, I didn't know that I could install a web application like a native application. (How many people are aware of this?)

---

TODO:

- 2044E, F
- Oath Ceremony (20250220)
- Create a TurboTax account (20250222)
- haircut
- Tax Return (20250415)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250209](20250209.html)
[20250211](20250211.html)
