<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250219

- Designing Data-Intensive Applications
	- Detailed implementations or reasonings are a bit too difficult for me now. I prioritize going through the book for now, and I will go back to in-depth study later.
	- Linerizability is a consistency model that ensures a system behaves as if there is only one copy of the data, with all operations applied atomicaly in a single, globally consistent order. While making distributed systems look as if a single-threaded program is appealing, its performance drawbacks make it an impractical option.
	- Causal consistency offers a more practical alternative by ensuring that operations that are causally related are observed in the same order by all nodes, without enforcing a total global ordering. This allows for better performance and scalability while still maintaining meaningful consistency.
	- However, capturing causal relationships using mechanisms like Lamport timestamps does not solve all coordination challenges, particularly in cases requiring strong agreement. This leads to the need for consensus algorithms to achieve a shared, reliable state across distributed nodes.
- 60 minutes walk
- haircut
- journaling (zero second thinking)
- started a Go project
- worked hard

---

TODO:

- **Oath Ceremony (20250220)**
- Summarize Desining Data-Intensive Applications Chapter 9
- Create a Go script to send a request to OpenAI API
- Pay state taxes
- Buy an envelope
- File the tax return
- 2044E, F
- live plants for my desk, probably Pothos

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250218](20250218.html)
[20250220](20250220.html)
