<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241126 ○

I'm sleepy... and hungry... someone... save me...

I'm good at understanding characters, but mathematics isn't exactly my strong suit. I enjoy reading books in my free time, but as a programmer, I feel I should dedicate more time to data structures and algorithms. I want to be better at competitive programming...

I feel like some dots in my brain about computer science and software engineering are finally connecting. I wasted a lot of time pursuing goals that were too difficult, but I'm glad I made it to this point. Keep going!

- Made progress in reading "Desining Data-Intensive Applications"
	- This book is mesmerizing, but if I would find it awfully tedious. To enjoy something, experience or knowledge is required.

## Total-Ionizing-Dose Effects on 3D Sequentially Integrated, Fully-Depleted Silicon-on-Insulator MOSFETs

[MOSFET Types, Working, Structure, and Applications - electronicsforu.com](https://www.electronicsforu.com/technology-trends/learn-electronics/mosfet-basics-working-applications)

> A Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field-effect Transistor (MOSFET, MOS-FET, or MOS FET) is a field-effect transistor (FET with an insulated gate) where the voltage determines the conductivity of the device.

> It is used for switching or amplifying signals.

[Total-Ionizing-Dose Effects on 3D Sequentially Integrated, Fully-Depleted Silicon-on-Insulator MOSFETs](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Shintaro-Toguchi/publication/339110152_Total-Ionizing-Dose_Effects_on_3D_Sequentially_Integrated_Fully-Depleted_Silicon-on-Insulator_MOSFETs/links/5fa2d8e4458515157be97353/Total-Ionizing-Dose-Effects-on-3D-Sequentially-Integrated-Fully-Depleted-Silicon-on-Insulator-MOSFETs.pdf)

> 3D SEQUENTIAL integration (3DSI) enables an active device to be stacked on another device in a sequential way to exxtend the capabilities of traditional plannar technology.

> In this letter, we evaluate whether the additional process steps required to fabricate the upper-layer transistor affects the radiation response of already-built transistors in the bottom layers of 3DSI FD-SOI (fully-depleted silicon-on-insulator) MOSFETs.

> These results strongly suggest that the additional processing steps required to achieve 3D integration have little effect on the resulting charge trapping and border-trap densities in the gate and/or buried oxides of these devices.

> These results are quite promising for the future development of highly-integrated, 3D technologies for space applications.

As the authors reported, 3D stacking has little effect on radiation response, suggesting that this technique can be utilized for chips used in space, offering more options for space applications.

## [andrewyng/aisuite](https://github.com/andrewyng/aisuite)

> Simple, unified interface to multiple Generative AI providers.

> `aisuite` makes it easy for developers to use multiple LLM through a standardized interface. Using an interface similar to OpenAI's, `aisuite` makes it easy to interact with the most popular LLMs and compare the results.

> Currently supported providers are - OpenAI, Anthropic, Azure, Google, AWS, Groq, Mistral, HuggingFace and Ollama.

The project is impressive, but there are some considerations for production use.

- The author is a very famous researcher, but it's unclear that the package continues to be actively maintained.
	- He seems not to maintain his other projects actively.
	- The `aisuite` package has only one release yet, lacking track records.
- The library is primarily focused on chat completions and lacks other functionalities.
	- It says "Today, the library is primarily focussed on chat completions."

## Checking Logs in My Mastodon Server

```
docker container logs sidekiq | grep [eE]rror > logs  # in VPS
```

```
chmod 400 LightsailKey.pem
scp -i LightsailKey.pem ubuntu@{ipaddress}:mastodon/logs .
```

One of my follower reported an issue that he does not receive my posts. He is on onsen-musume.fun, so I searched the string in logs.

```
I, [2024-11-12T13:00:24.983756 #7]  INFO -- : Rejected Announce activity https://onsen-musume.fun/notes/a0i0y3ay6aow2vnb/activity from https://onsen-musume.fun/users/8l6kpzosrf
```

I googled it and also browsed GitHub Issues/Discussions in mastodon/mastodon, but I didn't see any relevant ones. The error is reported when setting up relays, but I don't use relays.

I checked whether I blocked or muted the user

```
docker exec -it db psql --user mastodon
\dt  # list tables
select a.username, a.domain from accounts a, blocks b where b.target_account_id=a.id;
select a.username, a.domain from accounts a, mutes m where m.target_account_id=a.id;
```

but I don't see any anomalies. I think I have to rely on other users to help me out.

---

Muffin 300
Udon 700
Yogurt 500
Cocoa 400
Lean Cuisine 300
Oatmeal 200

Total 2400 kcal

---

MUST:

- Rayan Programming Contest 2024 (20241130)
- Resume measuring my weight (20241201)

TODO:

- Bring books from my parents' house (20241128)
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241125](20241125.html)
[20241127](20241127.html)
