<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241101 ◎

I finished the tasks I decided to do today, as always.

## [Okta AD/LDAP Delegated Authentication - Username Above 52 Characters Security Advisory](https://trust.okta.com/security-advisories/okta-ad-ldap-delegated-authentication-username/)

> On October 30, 2024, a vulnerability was internally identified in generating the cache key for AD/LDAP DelAuth. The Bcrypt algorithm was used to generate the cache key where we hash a combined string of userId + username + password. During specific conditions, this could allow users to authenticate by only providing the username with the stored cache key of a previous successful authentication.

> Note: A precondition for this vulnerability is that the username must be or exceed 52 characters any time a cache key is generated for the user.

The precondition to have 52 or more characters for a username looks super simple, especially in a famous security company like Okta, but that kind of thing happens sometimes. I think disclosing mistakes is key to getting customers to believe in the business (or anything).

## Is `uv` supported by GitHub Dependabot? (as of Nov 2 2024)

Motivation: There is a discussion to migrate `poetry` -> `uv` as `uv` is getting tractions from the industry, providing super-fast implementation of Python package (or say, project) management. Last time I checked, there is no native support by Dependabot, and because Dependagot is so useful to keep packages up-to-date and patch security issues, I prefer not to switch to `uv` if it still lacks support by Dependabot.

[Dependency bots | uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/integration/dependency-bots/#dependabot)

> Support for uv is not yet available. Progress can be tracked at:

> - [dependabot/dependabot-core#10478](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core/issues/10478) for `uv.lock` output

> - [dependabot/dependabot-core#10039](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core/issues/10039) for `uv pip compile` outputs

[Working on projects | uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/projects/#uvlock)

> uv.lock is a cross-platform lockfile that contains exact information about your project\'s dependencies. Unlike the pyproject.toml which is used to specify the broad requirements of your project, the lockfile contains the exact resolved versions that are installed in the project environment. This file should be checked into version control, allowing for consistent and reproducible installations across machines.

> uv.lock is a human-readable TOML file but is managed by uv and should not be edited manually.

Similar to `poetry.lock` in `poetry`, `uv.lock` is the lock file of all the dependencies in a project. As I see this issue in the GitHub repository of Dependabot

[Support updating `uv.lock` #10478](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core/issues/10478)

It\'s still open, and I don\'t see any related pull request, so I can say it\'s not supported by Dependabot at the moment.

There seem to be another way to lock dependencies with `uv`, `uv pip compile`.

[Locking environments | uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/pip/compile/)

> uv allows dependencies to be locked in the requirements.txt format.

And, as I see the issue and pull request in the Dependabot repository

[Support python uv as pip-compile compatible replacement #10039](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core/issues/10039)

[Support uv compiled requirements files #10040](https://github.com/dependabot/dependabot-core/pull/10040)

They are still in review. It is interesting that the pull request was created around five months ago and have been staled.

Maybe the Dependabot team does not have enough resources? Do they just don\'t like the idea to support `uv`? I browsed the thread but could not figure out.

The author communicated in a polite manner even though he has been (sort of) ignored. I respect the his attitude... I cannot guarantee that I wouldn't go mad if I were in his shoes.

TODO: I know `uv` is super-fast, but is it important? :thinking\_face:

---

Fruits 200
Protein bars 300
Pocky 200
Biriyani 1000
Herbal tea 100

Total 1800 kcal

---

MUST:

- Participate in Codeforces Round 984 (Div. 3)
- Order a birthday present for my wife

TODO:

- Check what "`uv` is fast" means and if it\'s important
- Retry 1829E with BFS
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241031](../10/20241031.html)
[20241102](20241102.html)
