<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241115 ◎

- Got a temporary number for electricity

## Amazon Bedrock

[Build Generative AI Applications with Foundation Models](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/?refid=0eaabb80-ee46-4e73-94ae-368ffb759b62)

> ### What is Amazon Bedrock?
> Amazon Bedrock is a fully managed service that offers a choice of high-performing foundation models (FMs) from leading AI companies like AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Meta, Mistral AI, Stability AI, and Amazon through a single API, along with a broad set of capabilities you need to build generative AI applications with security, privacy, and responsible AI. Using Amazon Bedrock, you can easily experiment with and evaluate top FMs for your use case, privately customize them with your data using techniques such as fine-tuning and Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), and build agents that execute tasks using your enterprise systems and data sources. Since Amazon Bedrock is serverless, you don't have to manage any infrastructure, and you can securely integrate and deploy generative AI capabilities into your applications using the AWS services you are already familiar with.

One of Amazon Web Services provides Generative AI functionality in AWS infrastructures.

[Amazon Bedrock API Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/APIReference/welcome.html)

> ### Amazon Bedrock endpoints
> Amazon Bedrock provides the following service endpoints.
> - `bedrock` - Contains control plane APIs for managing, training, and deploying models. For more information, see Amazon Bedrock Actions and Amazon Bedrock Data Types.
> - `bedrock-runtime` - Contains data plane APIs for making inference requests for models hosted in Amazon Bedrock. For more information, see Amazon Bedrock Runtime Actions and Amazon Bedrock Runtime Data Types.
> - `bedrock-agent` - Contains control plane APIs for creating and managing agents, knowledge bases, prompt management, and prompt flows. For more information, see Amazon Bedrock Agents Actions and Amazon Bedrock Agents Data Types.
> - `bedrock-agent-runtime` - Contains data plane APIs for invoking agents and flows, and querying knowledge bases. For more information, see Amazon Bedrock Agents Runtime Actions and Amazon Bedrock Agents Runtime Data Types.

To interact with a pre-trained model such as Claude, I only need to consider interacting with `bedrock-runtime` for now.

[BedrockRuntime - Boto3 1.35.62 documentation](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/bedrock-runtime.html)

boto3 is a Python SDK for AWS, and to access Bedrock Runtime API,

```python
import boto3

client = boto3.client("bedrock-runtime")
```

> These are the available methods:

> - apply\_guardrail
> - can\_paginate
> - close  # Closes underlyling endpoint connections
> - converse
> - converse\_stream
> - get\_paginator
> - get\_waiter
> - invoke\_model  # run inference
> - invoke\_model\_with\_response\_stream

To get conversational responses from LLM hosted on AWS Bedrock, I must call converse() method.

[converse - Boto3 1.35.62 documentation](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/bedrock-runtime/client/converse.html)

> Sends messages to the specified Amazon Bedrock model. `Converse` provides a consistent interface that works with all models that support messages. This allows you to write code once and use it with different models. If a model has unique inference parameters, you can also pass those unique parameters to the model.

> Amazon Bedrock doesn’t store any text, images, or documents that you provide as content. The data is only used to generate the response.

[Amazon Bedrock Runtime examples using SDK for Python (Boto3) - Anthropic Claude - AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/code-library/latest/ug/python_3_bedrock-runtime_code_examples.html#anthropic_claude)

```python
import boto3

client = boto3.client("bedrock-runtime", region_name="us-east-1")

model_id = "anthropic.claude-3-haiku-20240307-v1:0"

user_message = "Describe the purpose of a 'hello world' program in one line."
conversation = [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": [{"text": user_message}],
    }
]

response = client.converse(
    modelId=model_id,
    messages=conversation,
    inferenceConfig={"maxTokens": 512, "temperature": 0.5, "topP": 0.9},
)

# Extract and print the response text.
response_text = response["output"]["message"]["content"][0]["text"]
print(response_text)
```

---

157.0 lb

Protein shake 300
Mac & Cheese 400
Tuna Salad 500
Sushi 400
Berries 200
Protein bar 200

Total 2000 kcal

4 mi run, push-ups

---

MUST:

- Browse "You Only Look Once: Unified, Real-Time Object Detection" by Joseph Redmon

TODO:

- Improved suffix array
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241114](20241114.html)
[20241116](20241116.html)
