<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241110 ◎

- Filed an application for the apartment
- Replied back to a message
- Finished one drawing
- Browsed [Repository Pattern](https://www.cosmicpython.com/book/chapter_02_repository.html)
	- They compare the native use of ORM such as Django against a design with the Repository pattern where they decouple their model layer from the data layer.
	- "Apply dependency inversion to your ORM: Our domain model should be free of infrastructure concerns, so your ORM should import your model, and not the other way around."
	- "The Repository pattern is a simple abstraction around permanent storage: The repository gives you the illusion of a collection of in-memory objects. It makes it easy to create a `FakeRepository` for testing and swap fundamental details of your infrastructure without disrupting your core application."
	- I don\'t see many examples of the pattern, and I think the pattern just takes too much time. When we choose Python/Django, that is because it is easy to use and understand even for begineers, making them a great choice for startups. If you are going to do this kind of, let\'s say, optimization/strict development, it does not make sense to use Python which is very non-restrictive and does not provide rick functionalities for object-oriented programming. Though, I believe I still lack experience and might have missed important points.

## Strategy Pattern

I left GoF at my parent\'s house, and I cannot use the reference right now. What a shame.

The Strategy Pattern is a design pattern where we define a family of algorithms, encapsulate each one, and make them interchangeable at run time. By following the design pattern, we can separate each detailed implementation from other code including the client code, and new strategies can be added without modifying the existing one.

There are three components in this pattern.

- Context is responsible for maintaining a reference to a Strategy object and interacts with it to execute a behavior.
- Strategy Interface is defined with a common interface used for all concrete strategies.
- Concreate Strategies are implemented with different kinds of the algorithms inherit the Strategy Interface.

[Strategy in Python / Design Patterns](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/strategy/python/example)

[Strategy Design Pattern in Python](https://auth0.com/blog/strategy-design-pattern-in-python/)

This design pattern is very popular, and the implementation should not vary that much.

```python
from abc import ABC, abstractmethod


# Strategy Interface
class PaymentStrategy(ABC):
    @abstractmethod
    def pay(self, amount: float) -> None:
        raise NotImplementedError("pay() must be implemented")


# Concrete Strategy 1
class CreditCardPayment(PaymentStrategy):
    def __init__(self, card_number: str) -> None:
        self.card_number = card_number

    def pay(self, amount: float) -> None:
        print(f"Paid ${amount:.2f} using Credit Card {self.card_number}")


# Concrete Strategy 2
class PayPalPayment(PaymentStrategy):
    def __init__(self, email: str) -> None:
        self.email = email

    def pay(self, amount: float) -> None:
        print(f"Paid ${amount:.2f} using PayPal account {self.email}")


# Context
class PaymentContext:
    def __init__(self, strategy: PaymentStrategy):
        self.strategy = strategy

    def set_strategy(self, strategy: PaymentStrategy) -> None:
        self.strategy = strategy

    def execute_payment(self, amount: float) -> None:
        self.strategy.pay(amount)


# Usage
if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Paying with Credit Card
    context = PaymentContext(CreditCardPayment("1234-5678-9012-3456"))
    context.execute_payment(100.0)

    # Switching to PayPal
    # By calling `set_strategy`, teh behavior of the `Context` can be switched at runtime,
    # demonstrating the flexibility offered by the Strategy Pattern.
    paypal_payment = PayPalPayment("user@example.com")
    context.set_strategy(paypal_payment)
    context.execute_payment(50.0)
```

It was easy to understand in hindsight, but when I first read this pattern in GoF, I could not understand that. Once I\'m forced to implement it in real scenarios, the knowledge makes sense, and now I can have it organized in my head.

---

Yogurt 500
Sandwiches 300
Pancake & sausage 250
Protein shake 150
Protein bar 150
Salad 550
Berries 200
Oats 200

Total 2300 kcal

---

MUST:

- Start measuring my weight (20241112)

TODO:

- Improved suffix array
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241109](20241109.html)
[20241111](20241111.html)
