<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241112 ◎

My willpower to endure hunger for weight loss is deteriorating as I get older. Sad.

- Requested utility services (electricity and gas)
- Applied for an insurance
- Verizon does not support the new appartment, but AT&T and Xfinity do. I\'m thinking about using AT&T right now.

## Simple Factory Pattern

[Factory Comparision - refactoring.guru](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/factory-comparison)

> The simple factory pattern describes a class that has one creation method with a large conditional that based on method parameters chooses which product class to instantiate and then return.

> People usually confuse *simple factories* with a general *factories* or with one of the creational design patterns. In most cases, a simple factory is an intermetiate step of introducing **Factory Method** or **Abstract Factory** patterns.

> A simple factory is usually represented by a single method in a single class. Over time, this method might become too big, so you may decide to extract parts of the method to subclasses. Once you do it several times, you migth discover that the whole thing turned into the class *factory method* pattern.

So basically, it is a class with a method that instantiates an object depending on the given parameter.

```python
class PaymentFactory:
    @staticmethod
    def get_strategy(provider: str, **kwargs) -> PaymentStrategy:
        match provider:
            case "paypal":
                return PayPalPayment(**kwargs)
            case "credit_card":
                return CreditCardPayment(**kwargs)
            case _:
                raise ValueError(f"Unknown provider: {provider}")
```

## Strategy + Factory Pattern

[Strategy and Factory Pattern, The Best Software Design Pattern Combo (Jono Williams on YouTube)](https://youtu.be/aBOrVRKK3fA?si=fxlyC5gxDzeZgrQp)

This is super helpful to understand the combination, clear and concise.

[Design Patterns: The Strategy and Factory Patterns - DZone](https://dzone.com/articles/design-patterns-the-strategy-and-factory-patterns)

> We addressed this by creating a factory to encapsulate the logic concerned with selecting appropriate strategies for various conditions.

It seems that using factory patterns to extract and encapsulate strategy selection is an useful pattern.

The code I listed above removes the need to specify a strategy by the client code, listed here [20241110](20241110.html).

---

160.8 lb :cry:

Rice 800
Pancake & Sausage 750
Protein shake 300
Oatmeal 150

Total 2000 kcal

---

MUST:

- Talk to my house owner
- Prepare a checkbook
- Check the status of electricity

TODO:

- Browse "You Only Look Once: Unified, Real-Time Object Detection" by Joseph Redmon
- Improved suffix array
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241111](20241111.html)
[20241113](20241113.html)
