<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241109 ◎

- Room tours
	- I found a good place to move in.

## Radix sort

Explaining an algorithm with words is very challenging... sometimes code itself is much easier to understand.

Peeking the algorithm procedure was enough for me to implement the algorithm this time.

```python
def radix_sort(arr: list[int]) -> list[int]:
    max_val = max(arr)

    # O(d) where d is the nuber of digits in the largest number
    digit: int = 1
    while digit < max_val:
        # O(1)
        bucket: list[list[int]] = []
        for i in range(10):
            bucket.append([])

        # O(n) where n is the number of elements in the input array
        for x in arr:
            bucket[x // digit % 10].append(x)

        # O(n)
        arr: list[int] = []
        for i in range(10):
            arr.extend(bucket[i])

        digit *= 10

    return arr


arr = [431, 256, 257, 843, 900, 23, 76, 0, 45]
print(f"{arr=}")
print(f"{radix_sort(arr)=}")  # [0, 23, 45, 76, 256, 257, 431, 843, 900]
```

Counting sort has a problem in its space complexity; we need an array with the size of the range of possible values to achive the super efficient time complexity `O(n)`, where n is the number of elements in the input array. 

Radix sort uses the counting sort in a limited way, only having a array with the size `10`, while maintaining the order in each inner array.

Radix sort\'s time complexity is `O(nd)`, where `n` is the number of elements in the input array to be sorted, and `d` is the digit of the largest number in the input array. And, the space complexity of the radix sort is `O(n)` because unlike the counting sort, we only need a limited size to leverage the counting/hashing logic.

Radix sort is stable, meaning it preserves the relative order of elements with equal keys (x quick sort o merge sort).

I better understand that the main advantage of radix sort is its **non-comparision-based** logic, making it very efficient when `d`, a fixed number of digits, is small, it can outperform O(nlogn). (When `d` is so small, can\'t we just use counting sort, then? It seems I need some experience...)

---

Sushi bowl 800
Yogurt 500
m&m\'s 300
Pasta 400
Sushi 700
Berries 300
Chips 400
Oats 200
Yogurt 500

Total 4100 kcal

7 mi run, push-ups

---

MUST:

- Do some research on the Strategy pattern

TODO:

- Radix Sort
- Improved suffix array
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)
- Research a design pattern to have interchangeable classes

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241108](20241108.html)
[20241110](20241110.html)
