<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241104 ◎

- Went to the office and worked hard
- Ordered a trackball mouse for my wife
	- Not sure she will use it tho
- Ordered an anti-aging skin care kit for my wife

## Check how fast `uv` is

[uv/BENCHMARKS.md at main - astral-sh/uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/blob/main/BENCHMARKS.md)

Four scenarios are mentioned on the page: Warm Installation, Cold Installation, Warm Resolution, and Cold Resolution. In essence, what is "10-100x faster than `pip`" is that dependency resolution and package installation are much faster than any other package managers.

Although its performance is quite impressive, it does not look very appealing because dependency resolution and package installation do not happen frequently, and even with other package managers, they don\'t take much time. 

Adding a new package to add a new functionality is rare unless I just start a new project.

Updating packages is usually handled by Dependabot, and because it\'s a background job, some time lag should be tolerated. Updating packages in a hurry is very rare, and shortening package installation steps in GitHub Actions does not move the needle.

Packages are cached in GitHub Actions, so dependency resolution and package installation won\'t be a problem when running tests on pull requests.

For me, the fact that [`uv` is not supported by Dependabot](20241101.html) is more concerning to me, considering the skills and resources of my collaborators.

Conclusion: I should stick to `poetry`.

---

Pancakes & Sausage 500
Protein shake 450
Rice 800

Total 1750 kcal

10k run, push-ups

---

MUST:

- Browse the flashcard project

TODO:

- Retry 1829E with BFS
- Review 2036C
- Enroll in [Codeforces Community Course](https://codeforces.com/edu/courses)
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241103](20241103.html)
[20241105](20241105.html)
