<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241113 ◎

- Finished some miscellaneous tasks

## Why is `Authorization` Header Used for Authentication?

TL;DR: There seem to be no reason behind that.

I was confused why the "Authorization" header is used when performing Basic Authentication or API Authentication. Shouldn\t they be different concepts?

[Authorization - HTTP | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Authorization)

> The HTTP `Authorization` request header can be used to provide credentials that authenticate a user agent with a server, allowing access to protected resources.

### Authentication vs Authorization

[Authentication vs Authorization | Auth0](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/identity-fundamentals/authentication-and-authorization)

[Authentication vs Authorization | Okta](https://www.okta.com/identity-101/authentication-vs-authorization/)

Authentication

- Determines whether users are who they claim to be
	- I.e., Proving who the users are
- Challenges the user to validate credentials (API key, username/password(BASIC), or token to verify the user\'s identity) 
- **Usually done before authorization**

Authorization

- Determines what users can and cannot access
	- I.e., Proving what users are allowed to do
- Verifies whether access is allowed through policies and rules
	- I.e., Authorization usually involves checking roles, permissions, or scopes.

### Permissions (Authorization) in Django REST framework

I usually work with the Django REST framework, which provides a feature that allows permissions (authorization) to run after authentication.

[Permissiosn - Django REST framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/permissions/)

> Together with authentication and throttling, permissions determine whether a request should be granted or denied access.

It is common to have a role check along with a normal authentication.

(I haven\'t checked if this code block works. This is just for reference)

settings.py

```python
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': [
        'rest_framework.authentication.BasicAuthentication',
    ]
}
```

```python
from rest_framework.permissions import BasePermission


class IsSuperUser(BasePermission):
    def has_permission(self, request, view):
        return request.user and request.user.is_superuser
```

Usually, the flow looks like this: credentials are validated (authentication) first, and then additional checks (such as role checks) work as authorization.

Authentication and authorization may be intertwined in custom permissions, but the basic flow is like the example.

### Is it OK to use "Authorization" header for authentication? What is the history behind that?

I could not find any (trustworthy) resources that explain the reason.

[Why is the HTTP header for Authentication called Authorization? | Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/q/30062024/16193058)

:thinking\_face:

[Why is the header for HTTP Authentication called "Authorization" and not "Authentication" - Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42097902/why-is-the-header-for-http-authentication-called-authorization-and-not-authen)

> I assume it\'s a historic mistake. That's the best answer I have (note that I'm one of the authors of the newer RFC)

[HTTP authentication - the HTTP header name is Authorization - why? - StackExchange](https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/134113/http-authentication-the-http-header-name-is-authorization-why)

This answer just makes sense, pointing out that the HTTP specification for headers were specified January 1997, but the first security standards were codified in 1999-2000, and the order made the inconsistency.

But, it is just one rationale, and we cannot deny that there is no direct evidence/resource.

---

157.0 lb

Rice 400
Oatmeal 300
Mashed potatoes 500
Sushi bowl 800

Total 2000 kcal

push-ups

---

MUST:

- Start a contract with AT&T
- Prepare a checkbook
- Get a temporary number for electricity (20241115)

TODO:

- Browse "You Only Look Once: Unified, Real-Time Object Detection" by Joseph Redmon
- Improved suffix array
- Upgrade the Amazon Lightsail plan (take a snapshot, create a new instance, and migrate)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241112](20241112.html)
[20241114](20241114.html)
