<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240713

- Contributed a lot to my friend\'s repository.
	- Tried code forking instead of feature branching.
		- This is the first time I used the fork model on GitHub. I think the fork model is more common in the OSS world, and I\'m glad to have experience on that.
		- can avoid corrupting the upstream repository with a bunch of branches.
		- Found a good summary of Forking v.s. Branching [https://stackoverflow.com/a/34343080/16193058](https://stackoverflow.com/a/34343080/16193058)
		- I did it on BitBucket a while ago, but I lost the memory.
	- Explored PDM [pdm-project/pdm](https://github.com/pdm-project/pdm)
		- The latest (?) Python package and dependency manager, which clamins to be superior to `Pipenv`, `Poetry`, or `Hatch`.
		- Its usage is fairly simple and similar to `poetry`. I could easily catch up with it.
		- However, I found it difficult to configure PDM in Docker properly. When virtual environments get involved in Docker, it\'s super difficult and don\'t find any useful resources to resolve the issues I have.
		- Just exporting `requirements.txt` for now. It\'s much easier to configure.
- Read the chapter 3 and 4 of "Code That Fits In Your Head"
	- The sample code is written in C# (which is only popular in the game industry), it\'s kind of hard to digest the sample code.
	- I think most good engineers are already aware of the technique in the book.
	- Because code is read more than it\'s written, code should be optimized for readability instead of technical details such as programming languages or frameworks.
		- The author suggests using `7` as the number of things a human can remember at one time.
	- To make a software sustainable, it\'s important to focus on its value but not too focus on it at the same time. Sustainability comes with the perspectives of the both sides.

---

Ketone 5 mg/dl

Cheese 10g
Bacon Egg 10g

Total carbohydrate 20g

5k run
push ups
pull ups

---

MUST:

- Research how Python wheel works
- Set up health insurance

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240712](20240712.html)
[20240714](20240714.html)
