<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240716

- Finished reading chapter 7 and 8 of "Code That Fits in Your Head"
	- I understand the notion of "Command Query Separation," returning the result of side effects is helpful and I don\'t find any db packages that enforce it. For example, `pymongo` returns the result of db operations such as inserts.

- Checked Codeforces API to see if there are some problem rating information I can use
	- [Problem.rating](https://codeforces.com/apiHelp/objects#Problem) can be used.
	- Added some metrics about problem ratings in dashboard-backend API (not deployed yet)

- Checked [the editorial of 1992D](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/131461)
	- It\'s obvious that dynamic programming can be used. I considered what dp\_i should mean, but no approaches worked out.
	- > dp\_i - the minimum number of meters that need to be swum to reach the i-th cell.
	- Let\'s try the approach tomorrow. Also, I better check the greedy approach. The problem implies the use of dynamic programming, but things are sometimes much simpler.

---

## MIME types

[MDN | MIME types (IANA media types) - HTTP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types)

> A media type (also known as a Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions or MIME type) indicates the nature and format of a document, file, or assortment of bytes.

> Warning: Browsers use the MIME type, not the file extension, to determine how to process a URL, so it's important that web servers send the correct MIME type in the response\'s `Content-Type` header.
> If this is not correctly configured, browsers are likely to misinterpret the contents of files, sites will not work correctly, and downloaded files may be mishandled.

This is the exact mistake I made today. CSS files are passed as `text/html`, failing to make browsers understand it.

### Structure of a MIME type

> A MIME type most commonly consists of just two parts: a *type* and a *subtype*, separated by a slash (`/`) — with no whitespace between:

```
type/subtype
```

Examples: `text/plain`, `text/css`, `text/html`, `application/json`

[RFC 6838 - Media Type Specifications and Registration Procedures](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6838)

## Ingress

[Ingress | Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/)

> Ingress exposes HTTP and HTTPS routes from outside the cluster to services within the cluster.
> Traffic routing is controlled by rules defined on the Ingress resource.

### Ingress Controllers

[Ingress Controllers | Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/)

> In order for the Ingress resource to work, the cluster must have an ingress controller running.

Ingress Controllers seem to be softwares required to make Ingress work. There are various ingress controller implementation as the web page lists.

For example, when using AWS EKS, AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB) will be used.

### An ingress controller as a reverse proxy

The official document says nothing about the similarity with a reverse proxy, but I believe they are the same at a high level;

An ingress controller routes traffic from the outside of the cluter to services within the cluster whereas a reverse proxy routes traffic to (internal) servers.

## Issue/PR Templates in GitHub

[About issue and pull request templates](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/about-issue-and-pull-request-templates)

> With issue and pull request templates, you can customize and standardize the information you\'d like contributors to include when they open issues and pull requests in your repository.

[Configuring issue templates for your repository](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository)

> To use an issue form in your repository, you must create a new file and add it to the .github/ISSUE\_TEMPLATE folder in your repository.

I can have multiple templates (YAML) under the `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE` folder. For example, I can have different templates for a bug report and a feature request.

[Creating a pull request template for your repository](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-template-for-your-repository)

> When you add a pull request template to your repository, project contributors will automatically see the template's contents in the pull request body.

It seems I need to create a template in `.github/pull_request_template.md`. If I want to have multiple templates, I can have `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/` folder same as the issue templates.

---

Ketone 60 mg/dl

Cheese 10g
Snacks 10g

Total carbohydrate 20g

---

MUST:

- Implement Codeforces 1992D
- Read the chapter 9 of "Code That Fits in Your Head."

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section
- Cyclomatic Complexity

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240715](20240715.html)
[20240717](20240717.html)
