<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240717

- Finished helping my friend to set up FastAPI project.
	- Docker Compose, Database Connection, etc...
	- [https://github.com/mie-h/sprout/pull/40](https://github.com/mie-h/sprout/pull/40)
		- The repository name will be changed tho.
- Read the chapter 9 of "Code That Fits in Your Head"
	- [https://x.com/t\_wada/status/904916106153828352](https://x.com/t_wada/status/904916106153828352)
	- Commit messages should convey information about *why* the changes are made.
	- Other than that, I think I don\'t find anything new. I already try to make pull requests as small as possible. I also try to leverage the advantage of Git, having meaningful commit histories.

---

## gc - Garbage Collector Interface (Python)

Python already has garbage collectors. For example, CPython counts the number of references to a specific memory field, and once the memory is not referenced anymore, the memory will be freed.

If my understanding is correct, I have no idea when and how to use `gc` module. I can see that my colleagues use it to reduce the memory usage, but I need to check if it\'s right.

[gc - Garbage Collector Interface - Python 3.12.4 Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/gc.html)

> This module provides an interface to the optional garbage collector.
> It provides the ability to disable the collector, tune the collection frequency, and set debugging options.
> It also provides access to unreachable objects that the collector found but cannot free.
> Since the collector supplements the reference counting already used in Python, you can disable the collector if you are sure your program does not create reference cycles.

### `gc.collect(generation=2)`

> With no arguments, run a full collection.
> The effect of calling gc.collect() while the interpreter is already performing a collection is undefined.

In general, calling `gc.collect()` is dangerous because CPython\'s garbage collection is already running, and they would conflict.

However, I found this thread.

[Celery doesn\'t release memory after finishing a task](https://groups.google.com/g/celery-users/c/jVc3I3kPtlw)

It\'s an old thread, but our application seems to face the same issue, running `gc.collect()` at the end of a task frees huge amount of memory.

So, in our case, calling `gc.collect()` to free memory used in Celery makes sense.

## [1992D. Test of Love](https://codeforces.com/contest/1992/problem/D)

greedy approach

I should have noticed that I could check if the person could jump for each position. `m` is at most `10`, so for-looping 10 times for each position does not affect the time complexity. 10 is a constant.

```
def possible(n: int, m: int, k: int, a: list[str]) -> bool:
    posi: int = -1
    while posi < n:
        if posi >= 0 and a[posi] == "C":
            return False

        elif posi >= 0 and a[posi] == "W":
            posi += 1
            k -= 1

        else:  # posi == -1 or a[posi] == "L"
            # if there is a log in the range, jump to it
            # if there is no log, jump to to the farthest water
            logi: int = -1
            wateri: int = -1
            # at most m = 10, and this loop does not affect the time complexity
            for jumplen in range(1, m + 1):
                if posi + jumplen >= n:
                    logi = n  # goal
                    break

                if a[posi + jumplen] == "L":
                    logi = posi + jumplen
                elif a[posi + jumplen] != "C":
                    wateri = posi + jumplen

            if logi != -1:
                posi = logi
            elif wateri != -1:
                posi = wateri
            else:
                return False

    return k >= 0


for _ in range(int(input())):
    n, m, k = map(int, input().split())
    a: list[str] = list(input())

    if possible(n, m, k, a):
        print("YES")
    else:
        print("NO")
```

---

Ketone 60 mg/dl

Cheese 10g
Snacks 10g
Protein shake 10g
Bacon Egg 0g

Total carbohydrate 30g

walking

---

MUST:

- Implement Codeforces 1992D (dynamic programming)
- Send an email to the lawyer
- Add dependabot configuration to `huyfififi/dashboard-backend`
- Read the blog that points out the flaws of "Fast & Slow"

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section
- Cyclomatic Complexity

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240716](20240716.html)
[20240718](20240718.html)
