<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240710

- Finished reading the chapter 2 of "Just for Fun"
- Tweaked the LinkedIn profile

灼熱カバディの最新刊アツすぎだろ！

Bourne-Again Shell, bash

Andrew S. Tanenbaum, MINIX

## [1983B. Corner Twist](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1983/B)

I could not solve this problem during the contest. As I checked the solution, I noticed that I was very close to the answer.

> 2\*2 square can be used to generate the same result as the operation applied on any rectangle.

So, I can focus on applying 2\*2 square to `a` to make it `b` (?), i.e., thinking about applying 2\*2 square `[[1, 2], [2, 1]]` or `[[2, 1], [1, 2]]` should be enough to consider applying i\*j square.

To convert `a` into `b`, I can iterate through 1...n-1 for rows and 1...m-1 for columns, applying `[[1, 2], [2, 1]]` or `[[2, 1], [1, 2]]`.

> Feedback
> 215 Good problem
> 19 Average problem
> 292 Bad problem
> 37 Did not solve

It\'s interesting the community seems not to like the problem. I have little experience in competitive programming and don\'t know what determines whether a problem is good, and I\'m grateful to the author for making the contest happen.

We can make the first n - 1 rows and m - 1 columns equal by doing that, but we need to check if the last row and column of `a` (modified) and `b` equal.

> Note that the sum of each row and each column stays constant after each operation.

both rows and columns will get (1 + 2) mod 3 by applying the 2\*2 square, so any number of operations don\'t change the sum mod 3 for rows and columns.

That being said, the nth row and mth column of `a` (modified) and `b` need to have the same value after the operations <=> Every row and colum need to have the same value (mod 3).

```
def possible(n: int, m: int, a: list[int], b: list[int]) -> bool:
    for rowi in range(n):
        if sum(a[rowi]) % 3 != sum(b[rowi]) % 3:
            return False

    for coli in range(m):
        asum: int = 0
        bsum: int = 0
        for rowi in range(n):
            asum = (asum + a[rowi][coli]) % 3
            bsum = (bsum + b[rowi][coli]) % 3
        if asum != bsum:
            return False

    return True


for _ in range(int(input())):
    n, m = map(int, input().split())
    a: list[int] = []
    b: list[int] = []
    for i in range(n):
        a.append(list(map(int, list(input()))))
    for i in range(n):
        b.append(list(map(int, list(input()))))

    if possible(n, m, a, b):
        print("YES")
    else:
        print("NO")
```

I\'m still not quite sure if I understand this problem properly.

---

Snacks 20g
Protein shake 20g

Total carbohydrate 40g

---

MUST:

- Read the next section of "Just for Fun"

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240709](20240709.html)
[20240711](20240711.html)
