<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240714

---

It\'s annoying to be disputed without clear evidence or understanding of the topic.

I also feel jittery when software engineers with a couple of years of experience don\'t understand how `git` works and can\'t touch commit histories, lacking the knowledge of `git rebase` or other common commands.
	- but it\'s also true that I lack common knowledge of software engineering in some parts, and great people think I\'m a random moron.
	- For example, it seems most successful software engineers (especially in Japan) are very good at competitive programming, which I\'m trying to catch up with.

It was fun contributing to my friend\'s GitHub repository, but I\'m withdrawing. I better charge if I continue to provide insights or guide tasks.

---

## Wheel, the binary distribution format for Python packages

[Binary distribution format](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/binary-distribution-format/)

> A wheel is a ZIP-format archive with a specially formatted file name and the `.whl` extension.
> It contains a single distribution nearly as it would be installed according to PEP 376 with a particular installation scheme.
> Although a specialized installer is recommended, a wheel file may be installed by simply unpacking into site-packages with the standard ‘unzip’ tool while preserving enough information to spread its contents out onto their final paths at any later time.

Wheel is a format for binary distrubition, and using it is highly recommended to distribute, for example, publish a package to PyPI.

### Publishing a binary distribution to PyPI using PDM

[Build and Publish](https://pdm-project.org/latest/usage/publish/)

> If you are developing a library, after adding dependencies to your project, and finishing the coding, it's time to build and publish your package. It is as simple as one command:

> `pdm publish`

> This will automatically build a wheel and a source distribution(sdist), and upload them to the PyPI index.

---

Ketone 40 mg/dl

Total carbohydrate 0g

---

MUST:

- Set up health insurance

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240713](20240713.html)
[20240715](20240715.html)
