<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240715

- Participated in Codeforces Round 958 (Div. 2) without sleep, resulting in the worst score

---

## Code That Fits In Your Head

> As Kent Beck puts it:
> The goal of software design is to create chunks or slices that fit into a human mind.
> The software keeps growing but the human mind maxes out, so we have to keep chunking and slicing differently if we want to keeep making changes.

I think this is the primary message the book tells.

## `async` and `await`

[FastAPI: Concurrency and async / await](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/async/)

The detailed exmaples are a bit confusing for me... and it does not provide clear definitions of the terminologies, not sure they have clear definitions tho. 

By leveraging asynchronous (concurrency) code, we can avoid blocking I/O operations. Let\'s say, we have an API server that queries a database and returns the result. When the server accept a request, the process does not have to block I/O during database queries. Instead, the process can wait for the result on the side, without blocking I/O, leveraging concurrency. 

[Python Documentation: Coroutines and Tasks](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html)

> Coroutines declared with the async/await syntax is the preferred way of writing asyncio applications. For example, the following snippet of code prints “hello”, waits 1 second, and then prints “world”:

```
>>> import asyncio

>>> async def main():
...     print('hello')
...     await asyncio.sleep(1)
...     print('world')

>>> asyncio.run(main())
hello
world
```

> coroutine
> Coroutines are a more generalized form of subroutines.
> Subroutines are entered at one point and exited at another point.
> Coroutines can be entered, exited, and resumed at many different points.
> They can be implemented with the async def statement.

## [1992C. Gorilla and Permutation](https://codeforces.com/contest/1992/problem/C)

I started with observation, using the third test case.

`(n, m, k) = (10, 3, 8)`

The sample test cases result in non-complete decreasing arrays. So, I went ahead with `[10, 9, 8, ..., 3, 2, 1]`

```
f(1) = 10, g(1) = 0
f(2) = 19, g(2) = 0
f(3) = 27, g(3) = 0
f(4)~f(7) = 27, g(4)~g(7) = 0
f(8) = 27, g(8) = 3
f(9) = 27, g(9) = 5
```

From the observation, to minimize the sum of g(), we must order `1, 2, ...` from where g() > 0.

How about f()? to max out f() as soon as possible, we need to order `10, 9, ...` from the beginning.

Given the constraint `m < k`, f() maxes out earlier than g() starts having values. Therefore, we can start with a decreasing subarray, and end with an increasing subarray to minimize g().

```
for _ in range(int(input())):
    n, m, k = map(int, input().split())
    res = []
    for i in range(n):
        if i < n - m:
            res.append(n - i)
        else:
            res.append(i - n + m + 1)
    print(" ".join([str(x) for x in res]))
```

---

Ketone 50 mg/dl

Cheese 5g
Salad 10g
Bacon Egg 5g

Total carbohydrate 20g

push ups
6k run

---

MUST:

- Review Codeforces 1992D
- Check if I can add `difficulty` in the dashboard/codeforces API

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240714](20240714.html)
[20240716](20240716.html)
