<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240718

- Ordered keto supplement and other daily neccessities
- Read [A Meta-Scientific Perspective on "Thinking: Fast and Slow"](https://replicationindex.com/2020/12/30/a-meta-scientific-perspective-on-thinking-fast-and-slow/)
	- I don\'t understand everything on the article, their claims make sense; the book\'s references are quite shaky, and it might be better to consider it as a subjective matter of the eminent psychologist, Daniel Kahneman.
- Turned on `dependabot` for `huyfififi/dashboard-backend`
- Sent an email to the lawyer
- Created two repositories for my personal projects in mind
- worked hard
- Read chapter 10 and 11 of "Code That Fits in Your Head"

## `Rye`

[astral-sh/rye](https://github.com/astral-sh/rye)

> Rye is a comprehensive project and package management solution for Python.
> Rye picks and ships the right tools so you can get started in minutes:

- `astral-sh/ruff` as a formatter.
- `astral-sh/uv` with `unearth` and `pip-tools` as a package manager

Resolving dependencies and installing packages never be bottlenecks, and it\'s more important to make it easy to set up CI pipelines.

From that standpoint, `dependabot` seems to lack its native support, whereas `poetry` which has the most stars on GitHub is natively supported and D`dependabot` can create pull requests automatically.

About GitHub Actions, `rye` generates `requirements.lock` which can be used as a normal `requirements.txt` in `pip`, so it was not difficult to have GitHub Actions workflows.

Its performance is quite impressive, but at the moment I\'m writing this entry, `poetry` is the go-to option for me. It has the largest community, and when having issues, I can easily find solutions on the internet.

## `dependabot`

[Configuration options for the dependabot.yml file](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-version-updates/configuration-options-for-the-dependabot.yml-file)

This page guides me on how to configure `dependabot` of GitHub. Only issue I faced is

> Tip: For package managers such as pipenv and poetry, you need to use the pip YAML value.
> For example, if you use poetry to manage your Python dependencies and want Dependabot to monitor your dependency manifest file for new versions, use package-ecosystem: "pip" in your dependabot.yml file.

So, I need to set `package-ecosystem: "pip"` instead of `"poetry"`.

Not sure my configuration will work correctly. The format check has passed, but I will keep seeing the repository and its behavior.

```
version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "pip"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
    reviewers:
      - "huyfififi"
    versioning-strategy: "increase"
```

## [1992D. Test of Love](https://codeforces.com/contest/1992/problem/D)

I implemented the greedy approach yesterday, and now I\'m  trying dynamic programming.

I don\'t see much differences between the greedy approach and the dynamic programming approach though.

The meaning of dpi in this problem and the way I can iterate `m` for each position should be remembered.

```
import math


def possible(n: int, m: int, k: int, a: list[str]) -> bool:
    # dpi => total swim at position i
    res = [math.inf] * (n + 2)
    res[0] = 0

    def _try_jump(ai: int, m: int, res: list[int], a: list[str]) -> None:
        for i in range(1, m + 1):
            if ai - i + 1 < 0:
                break
            if ai - i + 1 == 0 or a[ai - i] == "L":  # left bank or log
                res[ai + 1] = min(res[ai + 1], res[ai - i + 1])
        res[ai + 1] = min(res[ai + 1], res[ai] + 1)  # no jump

    for ai in range(n + 1):
        if ai < n and a[ai] == "C":
            continue
        else:  # ai == n or a[ai] in ("W", "L")
            _try_jump(ai, m, res, a)

    return res[n + 1] <= k


for _ in range(int(input())):
    n, m, k = map(int, input().split())
    a = list(input())
    if possible(n, m, k, a):
        print("YES")
    else:
        print("NO")
```

---

Ketone 20 mg/dl

Protein shake 5g
Salmon 5g
Cheese 10g
Bacon Egg 10g

Total carbohydrate 30g

6k run

---

MUST:

- Consider the microservice independency with Redis/RabbitMQ (20240720)
- Read the chapter 12 and 13 of "Code That Fits in Your Head"
- Created a note for the chapter 13
- Crated a base structure of the Rust project (20240720)

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section
- Cyclomatic Complexity

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240717](20240717.html)
[20240719](20240719.html)
