<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240721

- Finished reading "Code That Fits in Your Head"
	- I don\'t agree all the suggestions in the book, but it provided me with comprehensive insights. In total, it is a great book.
	- Maybe I should create a page for books I have read
- I\'m glad that my pull request created last week was merged. Now, I can focus on enjoying my days off.

## STRIDE

\[from Code That Fits in Your Head\]

- Spoofing. Attackers try to pose as someone they\'re not in order to gain unauthorised access to the system.
- Tampering. Attackers try to tamper with data, for example, through SQL injection.
- Repudiation. Attackers deny that they\'ve performed an action, such as receiving an item they\'ve paid for.
- Information disclosure. Attackers can read data they shouldn\'t be able to read. Examples include man-in-the-middle attacks and SQL injection.
- Denial of service. Attackers attempt to make the system unavailable to its regular users.
- Elevation of privilege. Attackers attepmpt to gain more permissions than they have.

---

Ketone 5 mg/dl

Cheese 10g
Bacon 0g

Total carbohydrate 10g

---

MUST:

- Review the Codeforces problem I could not solve last week

TODO:

- Update my resume with the sign up feature
- Update my resume with the document structure and AWS S3
- Update my LinkedIn summary section
- Cyclomatic Complexity
- Consider the microservice independency with Redis/RabbitMQ
- Crated a base structure of the Rust project

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240720](20240720.html)
[20240722](20240722.html)
