<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250327

I had an MTG early in the morning today and am sleepy now. I will go to bed early today.

- journaling
- Learning the vi and Vim Editors (0, $)
- full-time job
- 20 minutes walk
- household chores
- updated and merged a pull request about LeetCode 20. Valid Parentheses

## Model Context Protocol (MCP)

[https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol)

> The Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open protocol that enables seamless integration between LLM applications and external data sources and tools. Whether you're building an AI-powered IDE, enhancing a chat interface, or creating custom AI workflows, MCP provides a standardized way to connect LLMs with the context they need.

> The Model Context Protocol is an open source project run by Anthropic, PBC. and open to contributions from the entire community.

[Microsoft Community Hub | Model Context Protocol (MCP): Integrating Azure OpenAI for Enhanced Tool Integration and Prompting](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/azure-ai-services-blog/model-context-protocol-mcp-integrating-azure-openai-for-enhanced-tool-integratio/4393788)

> MCP has the potential to function as a universal interface, think of it as the virtual / software version of USB-C for AI. Enabling seamless, secure and scalable data exchange between LLMs/AI Agents and external resources.

[TechCrunch - OpenAI adopts rival Anthropic’s standard for connecting AI models to data](https://techcrunch.com/2025/03/26/openai-adopts-rival-anthropics-standard-for-connecting-ai-models-to-data/)

I'm not quite sure about the protocol, but I sense that people are working together to create a standard for LLM. Right now, APIs are different for each provider, so as end-users, it is good news.

---

TODO:

- DMV appointment (20250513 12:20 pm) @ San Jose

---

long-term

Grind 75 -> Resume -> Job Change -> Asahina/Hirayama

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250326](20250326.html)
[20250328](20250328.html)
