<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250424

I've been busy this week. I hope I can get some rest on the weekend.

- chest press, 60 minutes indoor run
- browsed some web pages on data management in a microservices architecture
- full-time job

## Browsing Web Pages on Data Management in the Microservice Architecture Pattern

[learn.microsoft.com - Data considerations for microservices](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/microservices/design/data-considerations)

The first section gives me a broad understanding of how data management works in a microservice setup.

> Note
> It's fine for services to share the same physical database server. The problem occurs when services share the same schema, or read and write to the same set of database tables.

[reddit.com - Does Microservices architecture requires a database for each one ?](https://www.reddit.com/r/microservices/comments/17p2zrk/comment/k82r2d9/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)

I love the tone of the top-voted answer—it provides a concise summary of the issues with sharing common tables across multiple microservices, while also acknowledging that it can be acceptable in real-world scenarios.

> Microservices are architectural/design pattern, where services are:

> - Independently deployable
> - Loosely coupled
> - Organized around business capabilities

> By having common tables you are violating all 3 of those properties, because if you make breaking changes to table, you:

> - need to deploy multiple unrelated microservices
> - microservices are now tightly coupled with DB model
> - multiple services serve same business domain.

[microservices.io - Pattern: Database per service](https://microservices.io/patterns/data/database-per-service.html)

> Keep each microservice’s persistent data private to that service and accessible only via its API. A service’s transactions only involve its database.

---

TODO:

- Request a maintenance for my room (20250426)
- Dental appointment (20250506 8:30 am)
- DMV appointment (20250513 12:20 pm) @ San Jose

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250423](20250423.html)
[20250425](20250425.html)
