<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241214 ◎

- finished skimming the chapter 4 of "Designing Data-Intensive Applications"
- My friend's birthday party
	- I spoke a lot of English today. My English is getting improved!
	- It was fun, but now I'm tired from socializing for more than 6 hours.

## Designing Data-Intensive Applications: Chapter 4

#### Misc: RPC and REST: Communication Paradigm / Architectural Style

[RPC vs REST - Difference Between API Architectures - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/compare/the-difference-between-rpc-and-rest/) 

> Remote Procedure Call (RPC) and REST are two architectural styles in API design... RPC APIs allow developers to call remote functions in external servers as if they were local to their software... In contrast, REST APIs allow you to perform specific data operations on a remote server...

In this book, Martin points out that communication over the internet is fundamentally different from making function calls, and treating a remote service as if it were a local object in a programming language introduces various problems, restricting the focus to requests between services owned by the same organization.

RESTful API, which means API developed with REST guidelines, is much easier to work with. Developers can easily send requests to the API with `curl` or `Postman`, while they need to write some code to work with RPC.

#### Misc: SOAP and REST: Protocol Specification 

Technically, I cannot directly compare SOAP and REST because SOAP is a protocol specification standardized by the W3C while REST provides guidelines to design a service conceptually. (I'm gettting confused and not very sure!)

[SOAP vs REST - Difference Between API Technologies - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/compare/the-difference-between-soap-rest/)

> SOAP and REST are two different approaches to API design. The SOAP approach is highly structured and uses XML data format. REST is more flexible and allows applications to exchange data in multiple formats.

[w3shools.com - XML WSDL](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xml_wsdl.asp)

The API of a SOAP web service follows WSDL, which stands for Web Services Description Language, and because its structure is too complicated for humans to craft requests or read responses manually, users of SOAP are forced to use some tools to cope with the API. When using programming languages that don't have good support for SOAP, it will be very difficult to integrate with the SOAL API.

My only experience with SOAP is Salesforce API, and it was pretty tricky to work with. As I browsed blogs and web pages, it seems to be safe to consider SOAP as a sort of dead technology, though some large enterprises still use it to leverage its strict standards.

## Encoding

It is common practice to perform rolling upgrades, where a new version of a service is deployed to a subset of nodes and eventually replaces all nodes. With this approach, we can release a new version of a service without downtime, and it's easier to detect issues and revert the release.

However, it introduces a problem that needs careful handling: the presence of pods running both older and newer versions simultaneously. This issue is not limited to rolling upgrades: it can also occur when exposing API endpoints to third-party clients that may be using outdated versions.

To address this problem, it is crucial to select a data encoding format that supports both backward compatibility (allowing new code to read old data) and forward compatibility (enabling old code to read new data).

Programming language-specific encodings are not recommended because they are tightly coupled with specific programming languages. Also, they tend to fail to provide backward/forward compatibility.

[pickle - Python object serialization](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html)

> The pickle serialization format is guaranteed to be backwards compatible across Python releases provided a compatible pickle protocol is chosen and pickling and unpickling code deals with Python 2 to Python 3 type differences if your data is crossing that unique breaking change language boundary.

I browsed some web pages, and Python's encoding library `pickle` seems not to be forward compatible as the documentation does not mention it.

There are binary encodings that are backward compatible and forward compatible. One of them is Apache Avro, which achieves backward/forward compatibility under some conditions.

The most popular encoding is textual formats like JSON, XML, and CSV, where JSON is widespread due to its readability. Their backward compatibility and forward compatibility are achieved by how they are used in implementation.

---

162.6 lb

---

TODO:

- Codeforces Round 993 (Div. 4) (20241215)
- Codeforces 2040C

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241213](20241213.html)
[20241215](20241215.html)
