<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241213 ◎

I want to finish reading chapter 4 of "Designing Data-Intensive Applications" and tackle two Codeforces problems, if possible...

- Obtained the WiFi password for the co-working space in my apartment
- Updated the Mastodon version of my server.
	- Things go smoothly after adding additional RAM.
- Updated MacBook's OS version
- Bought some party stuff at Dollar Tree
- Played the trending game, Pokemon TCG Pocket, with my wife
	- It was fun. Sometimes, I need some time like this with my wife.
- Made progress on reading "Designing Data-Intensive Applications"
	- The section I'm reading has been a good refresher for things I studied a long time ago.

## The reason why Meta's Llama models and LlamaIndex use the word "Llama"

Although they share the name *Llama*, they are very different components from each other.

[Meta - Introducing Llama: A foundamental, 65-billion-parameter large language model](https://ai.meta.com/blog/large-language-model-llama-meta-ai/)

Meta's model *Llama* stands for *Large Language Model Meta AI*.

[PitchBook - LlamaIndex Company Profile 2024](https://pitchbook.com/profiles/company/528687-73#overview)

As I googled the company information, the company "LlamaIndex" has no relationship with Meta.

[Medium - Why is everyone in AI talking about Llamas? by Logan Kilpatrick](https://medium.com/around-the-prompt/why-is-everyone-in-ai-talking-about-llamas-ca776ed93bab)

LlamaIndex seems to be the first one to use the word *Llama*, and it was picked because the word has *LLM* in it. Moreover, it can evoke the image of a cute and friendly animal.

So, it is just a coincidence that they share the same name.

---

162.2 lb

---

TODO:

- My friend's birthday party (20241214)
	- I will leave the party in 30~60 minutes
- Codeforces Round 993 (Div. 4) (20241215)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241212](20241212.html)
[20241214](20241214.html)
