<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241021 ◎

I think I better resume working on the competitive-programming... If I have a nice, kind, and smart friend who can share time with me and study algorithms, it would be super helpful for me. Though, I think it\'s one in a million to have someone like Steve Wozniak. Steve Jobs is so lucky to have him in his life.

## Mastodon Version Upgrade

I tried to update my Mastodon instance with the latest version, but there are 66 (!) files that have conflicts. I don\'t want to deal with them. Why are there so many conflicts though I didn\'t touch them :angry:

```
$ git merge v4.3.0
$ git status --short | grep -E -c '^(UU|AA)'
66
```

It\'s been a year since I (as a moron) deployed the Mastodon server, and it seems many tech debts accumulated along the way.

It would be much easier to create a new instance and move my account to it. Still, on second thought, account migration is also a headache, and I want to maintain the domain if possible, as I built some friendships on it. 

And now, my Mastodon server is running with v4.3.0! Yay!

## `git checkout --theirs .`

[git - ours & theirs](https://nitaym.github.io/ourstheirs/)

Today I learned that I can use `git checkout --theirs .` to accept all incoming changes when resolving merge conflicts. Git is a very genius tool, but sometimes it shows me too many diffs even though I didn\'t touch the code. This option is convenient in that case.

```
$ git merge v4.3.0
(shows a bunch of conflicts)
$ git checkout --theirs .
$ git add .
$ git commit
```

[Git - git-checkout Documentation](https://nitaym.github.io/ourstheirs/)

> When checking out paths from the index, check out stage #2 (ours) or #3 (theirs) for unmerged paths.

> Note that during `git rebase` and `git pull --rebase`, ours and theirs may appear swapped; `--ours` gives the version from the branch the changes are rebased onto, while `--theirs` gives the version from the branch that holds your work that is being rebased.

I think I should remember this, as I frequently use `git rebase`.

## Unix time

I failed to explain the Unix epoch to my friend the other day.

[Unix Tick Tocks to a Billion | WIRED](https://www.wired.com/2001/09/unix-tick-tocks-to-a-billion/)

[Unix time - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time)  (I know it\'s not right to cite Wikipedia, but I would make an excuse that this page is not something academic or official.)

> **Unix time** is a date and time representation widely used in computing. It measures time by the number of non-leap seconds that have elapsed since 00:00:00 UTC on 1 January 1970, the Unix epoch. In modern computing, values are sometimes stored with higher granularity, such as microseconds or nanoseconds.

> Unix time originated as the system time of Unix operation systems. It has come to be widely used in other computer operating systems, file systems, programming languages, and databases.

[File Times - Win32 apps | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/sysinfo/file-times)

> A file time is a 64-bit value that represents the number of 100-nanosecond intervals that have elapsed since 12:00 A.M. January 1, 1601 Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). The system records file times when applications create, access, and write to files.

It seems the Windows NTFS file system uses a different time representation than Unix time, and there are also some that don\'t use it.

```python
from datetime import datetime


now = datetime.now()
iso_string = now.isoformat()
unix_time = datetime.timestamp(now)
print(f"datetime.now(): {now}")
print(f"ISO 8601 string: {iso_string}")
print(f"Unix timestamp: {unix_time}")
```

```
datetime.now(): 2024-10-21 19:36:24.755281
ISO 8601 string: 2024-10-21T19:36:24.755281
Unix timestamp: 1729564584.755281
```

---

Sprouts salad 300
Protein shake 300
Pasta 600
Mashed potatos 300
Rice 300

Total 1800 kcal

push-ups

---

MUST:

- Update the git history of the Amazon Lightsail instance.

TODO:

- Dentist appointment (20241029)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241020](20241020.html)
[20241022](20241022.html)
