<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241009

## Understanding Mastodon System Components

This is `compose.yaml` I use to run my server, and it should not be so different from what others use. 

Please note that some values and services are omitted to save space. For example `es` (Elastic Search) service can be deployed to Mastodon, but I don\'t use it to make things simple.

(The `compose.yaml` just makes sense... it\'s embarassing that I didn\'t understand when I first deployed the services...)

```
services:
  db:
    image: postgres:14-alpine

  redis:
    container_name: redis
    image: redis:7-alpine

  web:
    build: .
    image: ghcr.io/mastodon/mastodon:v4.3.0
    depends_on:
      - db
      - redis

  streaming:
    build: .
    image: ghcr.io/mastodon/mastodon:v4.3.0
    depends_on:
      - db
      - redis

  sidekiq:
    build: .
    image: ghcr.io/mastodon/mastodon:v4.3.0
    depends_on:
      - db
      - redis

  nginx:
    image: nginx:1.25.3
    depends_on:
      - web
      - streaming
```

### Main Application

- `db`
	- PostgreSQL
	- stores all the application data
- `web`
	- Ruby on Rails
	- API to access the application data
- `streaming`
	- [Streaming API](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/scaling/#streaming): "The streaming API handles long-lived HTTP and WebSocket connections, through which clients receive real-time updates."

### ActivityPub

Servers that speak ActivityPub send requests back and forth. To handle those requests, background jobs are used.

- `redis`
	- Redis
	- Message queue to queue requests to/from other servers.
	- also used as cache

- `sidekiq`
	- [Sidekiq](https://github.com/sidekiq/sidekiq)
	- handles background jobs whose delays are not a big problem.
	- queues background jobs in Redis

As simple as it is. Still, it\'s hard for me to manage the infrastructure, but for those who have experience in web applications, its design should not be something that are very different from the industrial standard.

---

Chips 350
m&m\'s 250
Salad 400
Pasta 600
Nori 100
Berries 300

Total 2000 kcal

---

MUST:

- None

TODO:

- Retry 2008B with a mathematical approach
- Study Disjoint Set Union
	- [Disjoint Set Union - Algorithms for Competitive Programming](https://cp-algorithms.com/data_structures/disjoint_set_union.html)
	- [Disjoing Set Union - HackerEarth](https://www.hackerearth.com/practice/notes/abhinav92003/disjoint-set-union/)
- Dentist appointment (20241029)
- Check some YouTube videos about the Naturalization Test
- Consider how to show flashcards in command line

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241008](20241008.html)
[20241010](20241010.html)
