<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20241017 ◎

- Went to a hospital to see a doctor
	- My skin condition is getting worse :weep:
	- I got a higher dose of steroids, and it put me in sort of a manic mode and made me work so hard today, completing several huge tasks.
- Created a new wallpaper with a new goal
- Browsed [Disjoint Set Union - Algorithm for Competitive Programming](https://cp-algorithms.com/data_structures/disjoint_set_union.html)
	- It contains very detailed explanation. I skipped the applications part but might want to check it later.

My back has hurt since I last did pull-ups.

## Change AWS Lightsail plan

### Motivation

I\'m using an AWS Lightsail instance with Ubuntu, 2 GB RAM, 2 vCPUs, and 60 GB SSD. The problem is that, 2 GB RAM seem to be a bit too weak to run a Mastodon server.

When I build Docker images, the machine often runs out of memory. When I get many interactions with other servers, the machine sometimes stops working.

I can see that other people run an instance with the specification same as mine and have multiple people signed up for their instances, but I\'m not sure how stable their instances are. They may not be using Docker Compose, but I would love to continue using Docker Compose to avoid configuration headaches.

- [How heavy is a single-user Mastodon instance?](https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosted/comments/shbf6v/how_heavy_is_a_singleuser_mastodon_instance/)
- [Mastodon Server Hardware Requirements](https://www.reddit.com/r/Mastodon/comments/yzp1qz/mastodon_server_hardware_requirements/)

Official documentation does not have any guides on the machine specification required [Running your own server - Mastodon documentation](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/user/run-your-own/)

### Upgrade AWS Lightsail plan

[Change your Lightsail plan | AWS re:Post](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/change-lightsail-plan)

> To upgrade your Lightsail plan to a larger instance, take a snapshot, and then create a larger instance from the snapshot.

[Upsize a Lightsail instance, storage, or database from snapshots](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/en_us/lightsail/latest/userguide/how-to-create-larger-instance-from-snapshot-using-console.html)

Upgrading a Lightsail instance looks straightforward. I think I better dump the PostgreSQL data and send it to an external computer using the scp command, though it should be in the snapshots.

It\'s been a while since I used `scp` command last time :sweat\_smile:

### Securely Copy database

1. `$ docker exec -it db pg_dump mydb > mydb.sql`
1. Download the SSH key (.pem) from the Lightsail dashboard
1. `scp -i /path/to/your/private-key.pem ubuntu@<instance-public-IP>:/remote/path/to/file /local/path`
	- As I\'m using Ubuntu [Connect to Lightsail Linux or Unix instances with the SSH command | AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lightsail/latest/userguide/amazon-lightsail-ssh-using-terminal.html)

### If something break

I will return 410 Gone to let other Fediverse servers know that my Mastodon server is gone.

AWS Route 53 seems to have a bit different configuration for DNS record management. It seems that I need to create a **Hosted zone** first, and then I will be able to add DNS records.


---

Tajin 450
Pasta 400
Chips 450
M&M\'s 350
Yogurt 350

Total 2000 kcal

4 mi run, push-ups

---

MUST:

- Configure Docker logs for my Mastodon instance

TODO:

- Implement Disjoint Set Union again
- Dentist appointment (20241029)
- Check some YouTube videos about the Naturalization Test

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20241016](20241016.html)
[20241018](20241018.html)
