<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250821

- full-time job
- sent a message to Kaiser about legal name change
- picture drawing

## Instructions per cycle / cycles per instruction and Classic RISC pipeline

[Wikipedia - Instructions per cycle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instructions_per_cycle)

> In computer architecture, instructions per cycle (IPC), commonly called instructions per clock, is one aspect of a processor's performance: the average number of instructions executed for each clock cycle. It is the multiplicative inverse of cycles per instruction.

> While early generations of CPUs carried out all the steps to execute an instruction sequentially, modern CPUs can do many things in parallel. As it is impossible to just keep doubling the speed of the clock, instruction pipelining and superscalar processor design have evolved so CPUs can use a variety of execution units in parallel – looking ahead through the incoming instructions in order to optimise them.

It seems:

- Old CPUs: Instructions took multiple cycles each.
- Modern CPUs: Can run multiple instructions per cycle with complex execution logic.

[Wikipedia - Cycles per instruction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cycles_per_instruction)

They are mathematical inverses:

```
IPC = 1 / CPI
```

I searched for ICP/CPI of Apple, Intel, or NVIDIA chips, but they don't seem to disclose the metrics.
I think I should consider CPI/IPC as theoretical models or analytical tools, not as fixed values for modern CPUs (as they can vary drastically depending on instructions or workload).

[Wikipedia - Reduced instruction set computer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reduced_instruction_set_computer)

It's been 5 (or more years) since I saw the word "RISC" in college. I know I should not use Wikipedia as a reference, but pardon me for now.

From what I digested...

RISC is a CPU architecture style that strives to simplify the instruction set so processors can run faster and more efficiently. Modern performance gains in Apple’s M-series and most mobile processors come from this philosophy.

[Wikipedia - Classic RISC pipeline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classic_RISC_pipeline)

RISC’s simplicity of instructions made the 5-stage pipeline feasible and efficient.

Classic RISC pipeline has 5 stages, and stages from different instructions can overhap. A single instruction requires 5 stages (cycles) to complete (latency), but because instructions can overlap, CPU can complete one instruction per cycle (throughput).
(Please refer to the diagram on the Wikipedia page or other places; it can provide visual understanding.)

---

TODO:

- layer appointment (20250910 11am)
- update name on Kaiser
- update name on MetLife
- USCIS office visit (20250915)
- Union Find (Disjoint Set)
- check available facilities for passport request
- Fidelity

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250820](20250820.html)
[20250822](20250822.html)
