<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240607

## 16 Personalities

Checked [16Personalities](https://www.16personalities.com/) with my wife. This time, my personalities turned out to be INFJ (Advocate) and my wife\'s is ISFJ. Only the second is different (N, Intuition vs S, Sensing), so it may be said that we are very similiar, but my peronality always change depending on life stages. I believe both logical thinking and emotional feeling are very important, and it does not make sense to bring logic into everyday life, such as dietary pereferences. I had a frined from college, and he thought everything should be judged by logic. To be honest, I found a bit difficult to spent my personal time with him because he always try to bring logic to my emotional judgement. I didn\'t say to him at that time, but he did not exercise regularly or pay attention to his health. It\'s a known fact that exercising can help in many ways for a long term, but he did not do that. I find his attitude is contradictory.

As a human, it\'s not possible to work like a machine. It\'s important to consider things logically, but it\'s also important to respect the hormone balance and feelings.

I digress, but what I wanted to say is, I weight emotion and logic equally, and personality tests such as 16 personalities cannot get the nuance of mine. Also, I have experienced a lot in life. I am always out of my comfort zone. Therefore, my peronality constantly changes.

I was surprised that all my friends don\'t feel that way. Their personalities tests results are fixed from their young ages.

Maybe that is because my upbringing was very unique.

## [1980A. Problem Generator](https://codeforces.com/contest/1980/problem/A)

A simple problem to count the number of missing ones.

```
for _ in range(int(input())):
    m, n = map(int, input().split())
    a = input()

    counts = {
        "A": n,
        "B": n,
        "C": n,
        "D": n,
        "E": n,
        "F": n,
        "G": n,
    }

    for c in a:
        counts[c] -= 1

    print(sum([count for count in counts.values() if count >= 0]))
```

## [1900B. Choosing Cubes](https://codeforces.com/contest/1980/problem/B)

sorting + conditions

```
for _ in range(int(input())):
    n, f, k = map(int, input().split())
    a = list(map(int, input().split()))
    f_num = a[f - 1]

    a.sort(reverse=True)

    if f_num < a[k - 1]:
        print("NO")
    elif f_num > a[k - 1]:
        print("YES")
    else:  # f_num == a[k-1]:
        if k < n and a[k] == f_num:
            print("MAYBE")
        else:
            print("YES")
```

---

Protein bar 200
Bagels 400

Total 2000 kcal

---

TODO:

- Take the device to the office (low priority)
- Check DMV status
- Review Codeforces 1980C

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240606](20240606.html)
[20240608](20240608.html)
