<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240602

- Replied back to comments on Jira
- Signed up for a health insurance
- Checked DMV notification preference.
- Pushed commits to fix a few things in the dashboard

## [1900B. Laura and Operations](https://codeforces.com/contest/1900/problem/B)

[Editorial](https://codeforces.com/topic/123302/en3)

Why is it tagged as `dp` when the solution does not use dynamic programming?? I\'m kinda triggered.

My guess is that, using C++ or other fast languages can solve this problem even with dynamic programming approaches. Therefore, it\'s tagged `dp` although dynamic programming is not the optimal solution.

Similar things happened when I was in college. I needed to do dynamic programming when solving the problem with Python, but other teams solved the problem by just brute forcing with C++.

**Take3away**

- Python `dict` can have `tuple` as key
- Parity: I can see that paying attention to parity sometimes helps to solve problems around rating 900.

```
for _ in range(int(input())):
    a, b, c = map(int, input().split())

    print(
        1 if b % 2 == c % 2 else 0,
        1 if a % 2 == c % 2 else 0,
        1 if a % 2 == b % 2 else 0,
        sep=" ",
    )
```

(2, 2, 1) can be

- (1, 1, 2)
- (1, 3, 0)
- (3, 1, 0)

The parity of each number changes after each operation. That means, two numbers always have the same parity if their parities are the same at the beginning. Otherwise, two numbers have the different parity through the operations.

When two numbers have the same parity, the other one can be left after the operations.

(3, 7, 4)

-> (4, 6, 5)

-> (5, 5, 6)

-> (0, 0, 11)

If two numbers have the same parity, but one is bigger than the other, following operations can make both numbers 0.

1. Reduce the difference by 2, by decreasing the bigger number and increasing the others.
1. Once two numbers have the same numbers, decreasing the two numbeers and increasing the other can make the two numbers 0.

Therefore, the solution code is very simple as shown above.

---

Sushi 800
Avocado 200
yogurt 800
Protein shake 200

Total 2000 kcal

---

TODO:

- Codeforces Round 950 (Div. 3)
- Take the device to the office
- I cannot sign in to DMV somehow (Cloudfront returns errors). Try again tomorrow.
- Join the discussion

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240601](20240601.html)
[20240603](20240603.html)
