<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20240610

I forgot I would have an MTG, which conflicts with the Codeforces contest tomorrow. I reluctantly withdrew from the contest.

My address was successfully updated, but it seems I need wait for some time to renew my DL/ID.

Checked GitHub payment information.

RDBMS (Relational Database Management System)

Ordered shoes. I will run 6+km with my friends next Friday, so I\'m preparing for that, running regularly and trying to reduce weight.

## Netlify

Netlify is a powerful platform for deploying and managing modern web projects.

Netlify provides various features for deploying and managing modern web projects, but here are the features I might want to use for personal projects.

### [`Redirects and rewrites` to return 410 Gone](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/)

> You can configure redirect and rewrite rules for your Netlify site...

When configuring `410 Gone` for my website...

1. create a Netlify application
1. create a plain text file `_redirects` with `/* /410.html 410!`
1. push changes to the Git repository to trigger the build

It redirects all traffic to 410.html, so that I can let users know the service is gone.

However, I already have a VPS running the Mastodon instance with Nginx as a reverse proxy. Why not update the Nginx configuration directly to return `410 Gone`?

I won\'t close the instance anytime soon, but better do more research later.

### CI to deploy a static site

[A Step-by-Step Guide: Deploying A Static Site or Single-page App](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2016/10/27/a-step-by-step-guide-deploying-a-static-site-or-single-page-app/)

This blog guides us through the configuration and looks very easy to follow.

I\'m tired of writing Nginx configuration or managing TLS certificates, so maybe I should use Netlify for the next project (if any).


## [1593B. Make it Divisible by 25](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1593/B)

[Editorial for Codeforces Round #748 (Div.3)](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/96034)

It seems the optimal solution is not different from mine; the only difference is the solution extracts the common operations.

## [1559B. Mocha and Red and Blue](https://codeforces.com/problemset/problem/1559/B)

I think we can do a greedy solution.

`?` -> skip
`R` -> (`BR` or `RB`) * n (n >= 0) + `B`
`B` -> (`BR` or `RB`) * n (n >= 0) + `R`

It works on paper, but I could not make it work as the conditions are complex (for me). I\'ll check its editorial tomorrow.

---

Kombucha 400
Yogurt drink 100
Protein shake 300
Smoothie 300

Total 1100 kcal

6k run
push ups

---

TODO:

- DMV: Check if I\'m eligible for online renewal (20240617)
- Update resume
- Review Codeforces 1559B

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20240609](20240609.html)
[20240611](20240611.html)
