<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250111

- 0秒思考
- Designing Data-Intensive Applications
	- *write skew*: a race condition where multiple transactions read the same objects and update some of them concurrently, leading to an inconsistent state. In constrast, a dirty write or lost update occurs when two transactions simultaneously read and update the same object, resulting in one update being overwritten and lost.
		- For example, you can think of a meeting room booking system. When two transactions that read bookings to ensure the the room is empty at a specific time and add a new booking record occur almost at the same time, both transactions may add their bookings that conflict. In this case, simply getting a lock for a record to be updated is infeasible.
			- "This effect, where a write in one transaction changes the result of a search query in another transaction, is called *phantom*".
		- One way to address the issue is *materializing conflicts*, which turns a phantom into a lock conflict by creating concrete set of rows that can be dealt with a lock.
			- For example, we can create records (mtg room, time period) beforehand, and use a lock when updating the records.
			- This is uncommon in reality because it's difficult to think about how to materialize conflicts.
	- *serializable* isolation: considered to be the strongest isolation level
		- "It guarantees that even though transactions may execute in parallel, the end result is the same as if they had executed one at a time, *serially*, without any concurrency."
- I provided a consultation for a couple of my friend's couple.
- Civics Questions
	- Mike Johnson

---

2 hours walk (exploration)

---

TODO:

- 2044E, F
- 2048D
- Smog test
	- Ask my parents to transfer the ownership of my car
- Naturalization Interview (20250207)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250110](20250110.html)
[20250112](20250112.html)
