<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250114

My full time position has been challenging this week.

- Zero Second Thinking
- Designing Data-Intensive Applications
	- Finished browsing the chapter 7
	- some of isolation levels widely used: *read commited*, *snapshot isolation*, and *serializable*
	- implementation of serializable transactions: executing transactions in a serial order, two-phase locking, and serializable snapshot isolation (SSI)
- Civics Questions

## Taking Breaks

Yesterday, I suddenly sweated a lot even though I did not feel hot. This type of body malfunction happened sometime recently, but it was the worst one. I rushed to bed and fell asleep yesterday.

As I mulled over my life, I tended to use all of my power to achieve goals. It was a greedy approach; I did my best to achieve the short-term goal, hoping the actions would also be good for the rest of my life.

It's like trying to sprint every 100 m in a full marathon. It's obvious that it does not work.

The approach provided me with some achievements, but I suffered a lot mentally and now physically. It worked to some extent when I was younger, but I think I need to reconsider my attitude toward my life in general.

I'm still trying to understand what kind of rest works for me, but at least I weigh breaks more now.

(You won't swim any faster by simply moving your limbs as forcefully as possible. You need to learn the proper technique to convert your strength into forward movement.)

---

TODO:

- Call the insurance agent (20250115)
- Buy a robot vacuum (20250115)
- Summary: Designing Data-Intensive Applications Chapter 7: Transactions
- Send a message to USCIS (202501120)
- 2044E, F
- 2048D
- Smog test
	- Ask my parents to transfer the ownership of my car
- Naturalization Interview (20250207)
- Make a doctor appointment (20250208)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250113](20250113.html)
[20250115](20250115.html)
