<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250119

- Zero Second Thinking
- did some household chores

This week will be busy. I hope I can make it through.

## Designing Data-Intensive Applications - Chapter 7 - Transactions

Transactions are a database feature that helps prevent anomalies caused by read/write conflicts, allowing the application layer to avoid handling these situations.

An example of a conflict is when two clients increment the same counter. Both clients read the counter (almost) simultaneously, seeing the value as `3`, and each writes `4` to the database. Ideally, the counter should be `5` because the increment occurs twice, but concurrent reads lead to this conflict. This is called *lost updates*.

In addition to lost updates, the following are examples of race conditions caused by concurrency:

- Dirty reads: A client reads data that includes another client's uncommitted writes.
- Dirty writes: A client overwrites data that includes another client's uncommitted writes.

This chapter also covers other concurrency issues such as *read skew*, *write skew*, and *phantom reads*.

To prevent concurrency issues, three widely used isolation levels are:

- Read Committed: Prevent dirty reads and dirty writes.
- Snapshot Isolation: Builds on read committed by also preventing read skew. (implemented with MVCC - multi-version concurrency control)
- Serializable: Prevents all conflicts mentioned above by virtually ordering requests to the database, ensuring full isolation.

There are three main approaches to implementing serializable transactions.

- Literal Serial Execution: Transactions are executed one at a time in a strict serial order. While it is a quite simple approach, this significantly limits concurrency and is rarely used in practice.
- Two-Phase Locking (2PL): This approach ensures serializability by requiring transactions to require locks on all the records they access (there are specific rules on handling two-phase locking). Locks are held until the transaction is completed, preventing conflicts but potentially causing performance bottlenecks due to contention and deadlocks. It has been widely used, but SSI is taking over its popularity.
- Serializable Snapshot Isolation (SSI): Unlike locking-based methods, SSI does not lock records in advance. Instead, It detects conflicts at the time of committing a transaction. If a conflict is found, the transaction is aborted. By postponing conflict checks until the end, SSI improves concurrency and performance, making it promising candidate for future standards.
	Both SI and SSI use version-based isolation (MVCC: multi-version concurrency control)

[PostgreSQL: Documentation: 17:13.2. Transaction Isolation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/transaction-iso.html#XACT-SERIALIZABLE)

> The Serializable isolation level is implemented using a technique known in academic database literature as Serializable Snapshot Isolation...

---

TODO:

- 2044E, F
- 2048D
- Naturalization Interview (20250207)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250117](20250117.html)
[20250120](20250120.html)
