<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250107

- SSD (Solid-State Drive): generally faster and more reliable than HDD (Hard Disk Drive), but is more expensive than HDD.
- Designing Data-Intensive Applications
	- "The safety guarantees provided by transactions are often described by the well-known acryonym ACID..."
	- Atomicity: database ensures that if a transaction fails, it does not change anything
	- Consistency: transactions don't change invariants (states that must be fixed)
		- Unlike other components of ACID, the consistency needs to be achieved on the application side, not on the database-end.
	- Isolation: each transaction can be treated without caring about other transactions that may happen concurrently
		- Because the guarantee deteriorates the performance of the database (if you think about having a lock implementation), it's said to be rarely used.
	- Durability: this is a guarantee that once a transaction has committed successfully, the data won't be lost.
		- Though, it's impossible to achieve this guarantee perfectly.
- Civics Questions

## Denormalization

There are two major types of databases: relational databases such as PostgreSQL and document databases such as MongoDB.

When working with relational databases, normalization is usually recommended to reduce redundancy and make it easier to handle data.

Let's say we have these records in `Employees` table

### Employees

| id | name | email | department |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Kazuki Kijima | kk@example.com | R&D |
| 2 | Huy Nguyen | hn@example.com | Sales |
| 3 | Gilbert Blythe | gb@example.com | R&D |

The common example I see in books/lectures is to consider a scenario to update the department fields R&D -> Engineering. If we keep data in this way, we need to iterate through all records and apply the update. In this example, we need to update records with id = 1 and id = 3.

Normalization comes in play here to extract the shared information and transfer it to another table.

### Employees

| id | name | email | department\_id |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Kazuki Kijima | kk@example.com | 1 |
| 2 | Huy Nguyen | hn@example.com | 2 |
| 3 | Gilbert Blythe | gb@example.com | 1 |

### Departments

| id | name |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | R&D |
| 2 | Sales |

Now, if we think about updating R&D -> Engineering, we just need to update one record in `Departments` table, leaving `Employees` records untouched.

One piece of information resides in one place. It's neat, right?

Document databases tend to be used with a very different perspective on this; they encourage redundancy.

The problem with normalized relational data is that we need to query multiple tables to gather information (using multiple JOIN). This can be mitigated by having some redundancy and not avoiding storing the same data in multiple places. 

To think about the example above, combining `Employees` table and `Departments` table into one can remove the need to join two different tables when reading. This can improve performance, and because we do the opposite operation to normalization, it's called denormalization.

It's beneficial under some scenarios, e.g., the entire document is used every time you render a web page, but write operations will cost much more.

(I didn't provide much details, and the explanation may be incorrect, strictly speaking)

---

30 minutes walk

---

TODO:

- 2044E, F
- 2048D
- Smog test
	- Ask my parents to transfer the ownership of my car
- Naturalization Interview (20250207)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250106](20250106.html)
[20250108](20250108.html)
