<head><meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" /><meta charset="UTF-8"></head>

# 20250103

Today is too productive. I wonder if I will burn out soon (though I have no idea how to rest).

- called the utility billing customer service
	- They say it usually takes two months to get the first bill for electricity (TIL)
	- 00045046-17
- asked my father about the car insurance
- worked on some tasks

## Designing Data-Intensive Applications: Chapter 5 - Replication

(It's a bit embarrassing that I don't have any experience managing big (large amount of) data. Because of the lack of hands-on exposure, the content of this book feels unfamiliar to me. Still, skimming it should be helpful in the future, providing me with some starting points for tackling data storage challenges.)

Replication is a technique to replicate data across multiple machines to place data closer to users geographically, have some tolerance for server down, and scale out the number of machines that serve for read requests.

These are the main approaches for replication that the author mentions in this chapter.

- Single-leader replication
	- Only the leader accepts write requests and propagates the latest data to the read replicas (followers). If the leader becomes unavailable, a failover occurs, and one of the followers is promoted to leader.
- Multi-leader replication
	- By extending the single-leader replication by having multiple leaders, performance and availability can be improved. The major downside of this approach is the necessity of handling conflicts of write requests.
	- "It rarely makes sense to use a multi-leader setup within a single datacenter, because the benefits rarely outweigh the added complexity."
- Leaderless replication (Dynamo-style)
	- Some approach data replication without the concepts of leaders, letting clients send write/read requests to multiple nodes.
	- However, as I googled the replication approach, I noticed that it seems unpopular in this industry.

When replication happens asynchronously, a client may read outdated data from an asynchronous follower. However, asynchronous followers should catch up with their leader at some point, and the effect is called eventual consistency.

Guarantees in leader-based replication

- Read-after-write consistency (also known as read-your-writes consistency)
	- This guarantee ensures that users can immediately read the updates they make rather than seeing outdated data after submitting those updates.
	- One way to achieve this is to always read from the leader when reading data that users may update.
- Monotonic Reads
	- This guarantee ensures that read results don't go backward chronographically when a user makes multiple reads.
- Consistent Prefix Reads
	- This guarantee ensures that users read data in the same order as writes occur.

## [2048A. Kevin and Combination Lock - 800](https://codeforces.com/contest/2048/problem/A)

If `x` is divisible by 33, it can be reduced to 0 by repeating `x = x - 33`.

If `x` is not divisible by 33, we can simply iterate `str(x)`, remove `33`, and recursively apply the check. At first, we have 8 positions to check for `33`, and in the next iteration, we have 6 positions as we removed `33` somewhere. Roughly speaking, we will check `8 * 6 * 4 * 2 = 384` positions at most, and its time complexity is not a problem here.

```python
def solve(x: int) -> bool:
    if x % 33 == 0:
        return True

    x_str: str = str(x)
    for i in range(len(x_str) - 1):
        if x_str[i : i + 2] == "33" and solve(int(x_str[:i] + x_str[i + 2 :])):
            return True

    return False


for _ in range(int(input())):
    x: int = int(input())
    if solve(x):
        print("YES")
    else:
        print("NO")
```

## [2048B. Kevin and Permutation - 900](https://codeforces.com/contest/2048/problem/B)

The idea is to distribute minimum values evenly with k intervals. We put `1` in the middle instead of the beginning to maximize the number of subarrays that have `1` as their minimum value.

```python
for _ in range(int(input())):
    n, k = map(int, input().split())

    ans: list[int] = []
    cnt: int = 1
    for i in range(n):
        if (i + 1) % k == 0:
            ans.append((i + 1) // k)
        else:
            ans.append(cnt + n // k)
            cnt += 1

    print(" ".join([str(x) for x in ans]))
```

## [2048C. Kevin and Binary Strings - 1200](https://codeforces.com/contest/2048/problem/C)

Let's call the larger substring of `s` `a` and the smaller one `b`. When `s` consists of only 1s, XOR of any `(a, b)` is smaller than `a`.

```
111 xor 001 = 110 < 111
```

if `0` in `s`, there is at least one pair of `(a, b)` whose XOR is larger than `a`.

```
100 xor 010 = 110 > 100
```

To maximize the XOR, we should pick `s` as `a` and `b` to turn the leftmost `0` in `a` into `1`. There may be several subarrays to achieve it, and we just need to check all possibilities.

```python
for _ in range(int(input())):
    s: str = input()

    sb: int = int(s, 2)
    i0: int = s.find("0")

    if i0 == -1:
        print(f"1 {len(s)} 1 1")
        continue

    sublen: int = len(s) - i0
    max_res: int = -1
    max_i: -1
    for i in range(i0):
        subs: int = int(s[i : i + sublen], 2)
        if sb ^ subs > max_res:
            max_res = sb ^ subs
            max_i = i

    print(f"1 {len(s)} {max_i + 1} {max_i + sublen}")
```

---

_ lb

lat pulldown, bench press, 30 minutes run, 60 minutes walk

---

TODO:

- 2044E, F
- Browse 2048D 
- Smog test
- Naturalization Interview (20250207)

---

[index](../../index.html)
[20250102](20250102.html)
[20250104](20250104.html)
